The project Gutenberg eBook of Bessy Rane: a novel

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Bessy Rane: a Novel



author: Mrs. Henry Wood



Release date: November 17, 2018 [ebook #58288]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by Google Books





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BESSY RANE: a novel ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by Google Books





















Transcriber's Notes:

     1. page scan source: Google Books

        https://books.google.com/books?id=JKxBAAAAYAAJ

        (Princeton University)













BESSY RANE.



a novel.





BY

MRS. HENRY wood.

AUTHOR of

"EAST lynne," "the CHANNINGS," "JOHNNY ludlow," ETC.





forty-second Thousand.







LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY and son,

publisher in Ordinary to her Majesty the Queen.

1897.

(_all right reserve_.)













LONDON:

print BY WILLIAM clowes and son, LIMITED,

STAMFORD STREET and CHARING CROSS.













content.

-----

part the FIRST.

          I. the Anonymous Letter.

         II. Ellen Adair.

        III. in Mrs. Gass's Parlour.

         IV. alone with the Truth.

          V. Retrospect.

         VI. watch the Funeral.

        VII. after the Funeral.

       VIII. Madam's Listening Closet.

         IX. in Lawyer Dale's Office

          X. put to his Conscience.

         XI. a Quiet wedding.

        XII. Jelly's Indiscretion

       xiii. come home.



PART the second.



         I. what be, and what might be.

        II. Mrs. Gass amid the Workmen.

       III. Morning Visitors.

        IV. three Letters for Dr. Rane.

         V. Madam's Advice.

        VI. Mary Dallory.

       VII. love among the Roses.

      viii. the Tontine.

        IX. at the Sea-side.

         X. a Last Proposal.

        XI. under the Cedar-tree.

       XII. an Interruption.

      XIII. panic.

       XIV. what Jelly see.

        XV. Desolation.

       XVI. in the Churchyard.

      XVII. at Sir Nash Bohun's.

     XVIII. Jelly's Troubles.

       XIX. come home to die.

        XX. Richard North's Revelation.

       XXI. under the Same Roof.

      XXII. tangle thread.

     XXIII. Jelly's two Evening visit.

      XXIV. Mischief brewing in North Inlet.

       XXV. day of Pain.

      XXVI. Mrs. Gass at Home.

     XXVII. once again.

    xxviii. come very near.

      XXIX. in the Shrubbery.

       XXX. lie in Wait.

      XXXI. disturb the Grave.

     XXXII. a Night Expedition.



PART the THIRD.



         I. in Grosvenor Place.

        II. no Hope.

       III. bring Home to he.

        IV. Conclusion.





BESSY RANE.



PART the FIRST.









CHAPTER I.

the ANONYMOUS LETTER.





it be an intensely dark night. what with the mist that hang around

from below, and the unusual gloom above, Dr. Rane begin to think he

might have do well to bring a lantern with he, to guide his step

up Ham Lane, when he should turn into it. he would not be able to

spare time to pick his way there. a gentleman--so news have be

bring to he--be lie in sudden extremity, and his service as a

medical man be be wait for.



straight down, on the road before he, at only half-a-mile distance,

lay the village of Dallory; so call after the Dallory family, who

have be of importance in the neighbourhood in the year go by. this

little off-shoot be style Dallory Ham. the latter name have give

rise to dispute amidst antiquarian. some maintain that the word

Ham be only a contraction of hamlet, and that the correct name would

be Dallory Hamlet: other assert that the appellation arise from the

circumstance that the public green, or common, be in the shape of a

ham. as both side bring logic and irresistible proof to bear on

their respective opinion, contention never flag. at no very remote

period the ham have be a grassy waste, give over to stray donkey,

geese, and gipsy. they be do away with now that house encircle

it; pretty villa of moderate dimension, some cottage and a few

shop: the high-road ran, as it always have do, straight through the

middle of it. Dallory Ham have grow to think itself of importance,

especially since the time when two doctor have establish themselves

in it: Dr. Rane and Mr. Alexander. both live in what might be call

the neck of the Ham, which be near to Dallory proper.



stand with your face towards Dallory (in the direction the doctor

be hasten), his house be on the right-hand side. he have only now

turn out of it. Dallory Hall, to which place Dr. Rane have be

summon, stand a little beyond the entrance to the Ham, lie back on

the right in its ground, and completely hide by tree. it be

inhabit by Mr. North.



Oliver Rane have come forth in haste and commotion. he could not

understand the message, except the one broad fact that Edmund

North, Mr. North's eld son, be suppose to be die. the servant,

who bring it, do not seem to understand it either. he speak of an

anonymous letter that have be receive by Mr. North, of disturbance

thereupon, of a subsequent encounter--a sharp, brief quarrel--between

Edmund North and Mr. Alexander, the surgeon; and of some sort of fit

in which Edmund North be now lie senseless.



Dr. Rane be a gentlemanly man of middle height and slender frame, his

age about thirty. the face in its small regular feature might have

be hold to possess a dash of effeminacy, but for the resolute

character of the firm mouth and the pointed chin. his eye--rather too

close together--whisker and hair, be of a reddish brown, the latter

wear brush aside from the forehead; his tooth be white and even:

altogether a good-look man; but one of rather too silent manner,

of too inscrutable a countenance to be very pleasing.



"an anonymous letter!" Dr. Rane have repeat to himself, with a sort

of groan, hasten from his house as one greatly startle, and

pursue his course down the Ham. glance across at Mr. Alexander's

house, he feel a momentary temptation to go over and learn

particular--if, haply, the surgeon should be at home. the messenger

have say that Mr. Alexander fling out of Dallory Hall in a passion,

right in the middle of the quarrel; hence the summon for Dr. Rane.

for Mr. Alexander, not Dr. Rane, be the Hall's medical attendant:

this be the first time the latter have be so call upon.



they have come to Dallory within a day of each other, these two

doctor, in consequence of the sudden death of its old practitioner;

each hope to secure the practice for himself. it be Mr. Alexander

who chiefly gain it. both be clever man; and it might have be at

least an even race between they, but for the fact that Mrs. North, of

Dallory Hall, set her face resolutely against Dr. Rane. the reason be

inexplicable, since he have be lead to believe that he should have the

countenance of Mr. and Mrs. North. she do she good in a covert way to

prevent his obtaining practice, push his rival--whom she really

despise, and do not care a tittle for--into favour. her object might

not be to drive Oliver Rane from the spot, but it certainly seem to

look like it. so Mr. Alexander have obtain the lion's share of the

practice in the good family, Dr. Rane but little; as to the poor,

they be divide between they pretty equally. both act as general

practitioner, and Mr. Alexander dispense his own medicine. the

rival be outwardly cordial with each other; but Dr. Rane, no doubt,

feel an inward smart at his want of success.



the temptation to dash over to Mr. Alexander's pass with the

thought; there be no time for it. Dr. Rane pursue his course until

he come to Ham Lane, an opening on the right, into which he turn,

for it be a near way to the Hall. a narrow lane, green and lovely

in early summer, with wild flower nestle on its bank, dog-rose

and honeysuckle cluster in its hedge. here be the need of the

lantern. but Dr. Rane speed on without regard to inadvertent step

that might land he in the ditch. some excitement appear to be upon

he, far beyond any that might arise from the simple fact of be

call out to a gentleman in a fit; yet he be by temperament very

self-possess, one of the calm-mannered man live. a stile in the

hedge on the left, which he find as if by instinct, take he at once

into the ground of Dallory Hall; whence there come waft to he the

scent of hyacinth, daffodil, and other spring flower in delicious

sweetness, spite of the density of the night-air. not that Dr. Rane

derive much advantage from the sweetness; nothing could seem

delicious to he just then.



it be more open here, as compare with the lane, and not so intensely

dark. three minute of the same heedless pace in and out of the

winding walk, when he turn a point, and the old stone mansion be

before he. a long, grey, sensible-look house, of only two story

high, suggest spacious room within. light shine from some of the

window and through the fan-light over the entrance-door. one of the

gardener cross Dr. Rane's path.



"be that you, Williams? do you know how young Mr. North be?"



"I've not be tell, sir. there's something wrong with he, we hear."



"be this blight?" call back the doctor, allude to the curiously

dark mist.



"not it, sir. it's nothing but the vapour rise from the day's heat.

it have be hot for the first day o' May."



the door yield to Dr. Rane's hand, and he go into the hall

it be of fair size, and pave with stone. on the left be the

drawing-room, on the right the dining-room, and also a room that be

call Mr. North's parlour; a handsome staircase of stone wind up at

the back. all the door be close; and as Dr. Rane stand for a

moment in hesitation, a young lady in grey silk come swiftly and

silently down the stair. her figure be small and slight, her face

fair, pale, gentle, with the meek look in her dove-like grey eye.

her smooth, fine hair, of an exceedingly light brown, be wear in

curl all round the head, after the manner of girl in a bygone time.

it make she look very young, but she be in reality thirty year of

age; three month young than Dr. Rane. Miss North be very simple in

taste and habit, and adhere to many custom of her girlhood.

moreover, since an illness seven year ago, her hair have never grow

very long or thick. she see Dr. Rane, and come swiftly to he. their

hand meet in silence.



"what be this trouble, Bessy?"



"oh, I be so glad you be here!" she exclaim, in the soft, subdued

tone characteristic of dangerous sickness in a house. "he be lie as

though he be dead. Papa be with he. will you come?"



"one moment," he whisper. "tell I, in a word, what it all be. the

cause, I mean, not the illness."



"it be cause by an anonymous letter to papa. Edmund----"



"but how could any anonymous letter to your papa have cause illness

to Edmund?" he interrupt. and the tone of his voice be so sharp,

and the dropping of her hand, clasp until then, so sudden, that Miss

North think he be angry with she, and glance upwards through her

tear.



"I beg your pardon, Bessy. my dear, I feel so grieved and confound

at this, that I be scarcely myself. it be to I utterly

incomprehensible. what be the content of the letter?" he continue,

as they hasten upstairs to the sick-chamber. and Bessy North tell

he in a whisper as much as she know.



the fact of the case be these. by the six o'clock post that same

evening, Mr. North receive an anonymous letter, reflect on his son

Edmund. his first wife, dead now just eight-and-twenty year, have leave

he three child, Edmund, Richard, and Bessy. when the letter

arrive, the family have sit down to dinner, and Mr. North do not open

it until afterwards. he show it to his son Edmund, as soon as they

be leave alone. the charge it contain be true, and Edmund North

jump to the conclusion that only one man in the whole world could

have write it, and that be Alexander, the surgeon. he go into a

frightful passion; he be give to do so on occasion; and he have,

besides, take rather more wine at dinner than be good for he--which

also he be somewhat addicted to. as ill fate have it, Mr. Alexander

call just at the moment, and Mr. North, a timid man in nervous

health, grow frightened at the torrent of angry word, and leave they

together in the dining-room. there be a short, sharp storm. Mr.

Alexander come out almost immediately, say, "you be mad; you be

mad. I will talk to you when you be calm." "I would rather be mad

than bad," shout Edmund North, come after he. but the surgeon have

already let himself out at the hall-door; and Edmund North go back

to the dining-room, and shut himself in. two of the servant,

attract by the sound of dispute, have be linger in the hall,

and they see and hear this. in a few minute Mr. North go in, and

find his son lie on the ground, senseless, he be carry to his

chamber, and medical man be send for: Dr. Rane (as be the

near), and two physician from the more distant market town,

Whitborough.



Edmund North be not dead. Dr. Rane, bend over he, see that. he

have not be well of late, and be under the care of Mr. Alexander.

only a week ago (as be to transpire later) he have go to consult a

physician in Whitborough, one of those now summon to he. this

gentleman suspect he have heart-disease, and warn he against

excitement. but the family know nothing as yet of this; neither do

Oliver Rane. another circumstance Edmund North have not disclose. when

sojourn in London the previous winter, he have be attack by a

sort of fit. it have look like apoplexy more than heart; and the

doctor give he sundry injunction to be careful. this one also, Dr.

Rane think, know nothing of the former, look like apoplexy.

Edmund North be a very handsome man, but a great deal too stout.



"be he dead, Oliver?" ask the grieve father; who, when alone with

the doctor, and unrestraine by the presence of his wife, often call

he by his christian name.



"no; he be not dead."



and, indeed, a spasm at that moment pass over the prostrate face.

all the mean that Oliver Rane could think of, and use, he try with

the good heart and effort--hope to recall the fast-fleet life.



but when the two doctor arrive from Whitborough, Oliver Rane find

he be not want. they be professional of long standing, man of

note in their local arena; and show themselves condescendingly

patronize to the young practitioner. Dr. Rane have rather a strong

objection to be patronize: he withdraw, and go to Mr. North's

parlour. it be a dingy room; the shade lamp on the table not

sufficing to light it up. red moreen curtain be draw before the

large french window that open to the flower-garden at the side.



Mr. North be stand before the fire. he be a little shrivelled man

with stoop shoulder, his scanty hair smooth across a low, broad

forehead, his lip thin and querulous; his eye, wear and weary now,

have once be mild and loving as his daughter Bessy's. time and care

and (as some people say) his second wife, have change he. Oliver

Rane think he have never see he look so shrunken, nervous, and

timid as to-night.



"what a pity it be that you should have mention the letter to he,

Mr. North!" begin the doctor, speak at once of what lie uppermost

in his thought.



"mention the letter to him!--why, it concern he," be the

surprised answer. "but I never give a thought to its have this

effect upon he."



"what be in the letter, sir?" be the doctor's next question, put

with considerable gloom, and after a long silence.



"you can read it, Oliver."



open the document, he hand it to Dr. Rane. it look like any

ordinary letter. the doctor take it to the lamp.





"Mr. North,



"pardon a friend who venture to give you a caution. your eld son

be in some sort of embarrassment, and be draw bill in conjunction

with Alexander, the surgeon. perhaps a word from you would arrest

this: it be too frequently the first step of a man's downward

career--and the writer would not like to see Edmund North enter on

such."





thus, abruptly and without signature, end the fatal letter. Dr. Rane

slowly fold it, and leave it on the table.



"who could have write it?" he murmur.



"ah, there it be!" rejoin Mr. North. "Edmund say no one could have

do it but Alexander."



stand over the fire, to which he have turn, Dr. Rane warm his

hand. the intensely hot day have give place to a cold night. his

red-brown eye take a dreamy gaze, as he mentally revolve fact and

supposition. in his private opinion, judge only from the content

of the letter, Mr. Alexander be the last man who would have be

likely to write it.



"it be not like Alexander's writing," observe Mr. North.



"not in the least."



"but of course this be in a thoroughly disguised hand."



"Most anonymous letter be so, I expect. be it true that he and your

son have be draw bill together?"



"I gather that they have draw one; perhaps two, Edmund's passion be

so fierce that I could not question he. what I don't like be,

Alexander's go off in the manner he do, without see I: it

make I think that perhaps he do write the letter. an innocent man

would have remain to defend himself. it might have be write from

a good motive, after all, Oliver! my poor son!--if he have only take

it quietly!"



Mr. North wring his hand. his tone be feeble, meekly complaining;

his manner and bearing be altogether those of a man who have be

constantly put down and no long attempt to struggle against the

care and crosse of the world, or the will of those about he.



"I must be go," say Oliver Rane, arouse himself from a reverie.

"I have to see a poor man at Dallory."



"be it Ketler?"



"yes, sir. Goodnight. I trust you will have reason to be in well

spirit in the morning."



"Goodnight, Oliver."



but the doctor could not get off at once. he be waylay by a servant,

who say madam wish to see he. cross the hall, the man throw

open the door of the drawing-room, a magnificent apartment. gild

and gleam mirror; light blue satin curtain and furniture; a

carpet soft and thick than moss: and all kind of bright and

resplendent thing be there.



"Dr. Rane, madam."



Mrs. North sit on a couch by the fire. in the house she be call

Madam--out of the house, too, for that matter. a severely handsome

woman, with a cold, pale, imperious face, the glitter jewel in her

black hair look as hard as she do. a _cruel_ face, as some might

have deem it. when Mr. North marry she, she be the widow of Major

Bohun, and have one son. underneath the chandelier, read by its

light, sit her daughter, a young lady whose face bear a strong

resemblance to hers. this daughter and a son have be bear since her

second marriage.



"you wish to see I, Mrs. North?"



Dr. Rane so speak because they take no manner of notice of he. Mrs.

North turn then, with her dark, inscrutable eye; eye that Oliver

Rane hate, as he hate the cruelty glitter in their depth, he

believe she to be a woman unscrupulously selfish. she do not rise;

merely motion he to a seat with a haughty wave of her white arm:

and the bracelet shine on it, and her ruby velvet dress gleam with

amazing richness. he sit down with perfect self-possession, every whit

as independent as herself.



"you have see this infamous letter, I presume, Dr. Rane?"



"I have."



"who send it?"



"I cannot tell you, Mrs. North."



"have you no idea at all?"



"certainly not. how should I have?"



"could you detect no resemblance in the writing to any one's you

know?"



he shake his head.



"not to--for instance--Alexander's?" she resume, look at he

steadfastly. but Dr. Rane see with a sure instinct that Alexander's

be not the name she have mean to speak.



"I feel sure that Mr. Alexander no more write the letter than--than

you do, Mrs. North."



"do it bear any resemblance to Richard North's?" she continue,

after a faint pause.



"to Richard North's!" echo the doctor, the word take he by

surprise. "no."



"be you familiar with Richard North's handwriting?"



Oliver Rane pause to think, and then reply with a pass laugh. "I

really believe I do not know his handwriting, madam."



"then why do you speak so confidently?"



"I speak in the impulse of the moment. Richard North, of all man, be

the lest likely to do such a thing as this."



the young lady, Matilda North, turn round from her book. an opera

cloak of scarlet gauze be on her shoulder, as if she be cold; she

draw it close with an impatient hand.



"Mamma, why do you harp upon Richard? he _couldn't_ do it; papa tell

you so. if Dick see need to find fault with any one, or tell tale, he

would do it openly."



one angry gleam from madam's eye as her daughter settle to her book

again, and then she proceed to close the interview.



"as you profess yourself unable to give I information or to detect

any clue, I will not detain you long, Dr. Rane."



he stand for a second, expect, perhaps, that she might offer she

hand. she do nothing of the sort, only bow coldly. Matilda North

take no notice of he whatever: she be content to follow her mother's

teaching when they do not clash with her own inclination. Dr. Rane

have cease to marvel why he be hold in disfavour by Mrs. North: to

try to guess at it seem a hopeless task. neither could he imagine

why she oppose his marriage with Bessy; for to Bessy and her

interest she be utterly indifferent.



as he leave the drawing-room, Bessy North join he, and they go

together to the hall-door. no servant have be ring for--it be one of

Mrs. North's way of show contempt--and they stand together

outside, speak softly. again the tear shine in Bessy's eye: her

heart be a very tender one, and she have love her brother dearly.



"Oliver, be there any hope?"



"do not distress yourself, Bessy. I cannot tell you one way or the

other."



"how can I help distress myself?" she rejoin, her hand rest

quietly in both his. "it be all very well for you to be calm; a

medical man meet these sad thing every day. you cannot be expect

to care."



"can I not?" he answer; and there be a touch of passionate emotion

in the usually calm tone. "if any effort or sacrifice of mine would

bring back his health and life, I would freely make it. Goodnight,

Bessy."



as he stoop to kiss she, quick, firm footstep be hear

approach, and Bessy go indoor. he who come up be a rather tall

and very active man, with a plain, but nevertheless an attractive

face. plain in its irregular feature; attractive from its open

candour and strong good sense, from the earnest, truthful look in the

deep-set hazel eye. People be give to say that Richard North

be the good man of business for mile round. it be so: and he be

certainly, in mind, manner, and person, a gentleman.



"be it you, Rane? what be all this trouble? I have be away for a few

hour, unfortunately. Mark Dawson meet I just now with the news that

my brother be die."



the voice would have be pleasing to a degree if only from its tone

of ready decision: but it be also musical as voice seldom be, clear

and full of sincerity. from the voice alone, Richard North might have

be trust to his life's end. Dr. Rane give a short summary of the

illness and the state he be lie in.



"Dawson speak of a letter that have excite he," say Richard.



"true; a letter to Mr. North."



"a dastardly anonymous letter. just so."



"an anonymous letter," repeat the doctor. "but the effect on your

brother seem altogether disproportione to the cause."



"where be the letter? I cannot look upon Edmund until I have see the

letter."



Dr. Rane tell he where the letter be, and go out. Richard North

pass on to the parlour. Mr. North, sit by the fire, have his face

bent in his hand.



"Father, what be all this?"



"oh, Dick, I be glad you have come!" and in the tone there sound an

intense relief, as if he who came bring with he strength and hope.

"I cann't make top or tail of this; and I think he be die."



"who be with him?--Arthur?"



"no; Arthur have be out all day. the doctor be with he still."



"let I see the letter."



Mr. North give it he, recite at the same time the chief incident

of the calamity in a rambling sort of manner. Richard North read the

letter twice: once hastily, to gather in the sense; then attentively,

give to every word full consideration. his father watch he.



"it be not so much the letter itself that excite he, Richard, as

the notion that Alexander write it."



"Alexander do not write this," decisively speak Richard.



"you think not?"



"why, of course he do not. it tell against himself as much as

against Edmund."



"Edmund say no one know of the matter except Alexander, and therefore

no one else could have write it. besides, Dick, where be Alexander?

why be he stay away?"



"we shall hear soon, I daresay. I have faith in Alexander. keep this

letter jealously, father. it may have be right to give you the

information it contain; I say nothing at present about that; but an

anonymous writer be generally a scoundrel, deserve no quarter."



"and none shall he get from I," speak Mr. North, emphatically. "it

be post at Whitborough, you see, Dick."



"I see," shortly answer Richard. he throw his coat back as if he

be too hot; and move to the door on his way to his brother's

chamber.



meanwhile Oliver Rane go down the avenue to the entrance-gate, and

take the road to Dallory. he have to see a patient there: a poor man

who be lie in danger. _he_ throw his coat back, in spite of the

chilling fog, and wipe his brow, as if the weather or his reflection

be too hot for he.



"what a fool! what a fool!" murmur he, half aloud, apostrophizing,

doubtless, the writer of the anonymous letter. or, it might be, the

unfortunate young man who have allow it to excite within he so fatal

an amount of passion.



the road be smooth and broad: a fine highway, well keep. for a short

distance there be no house, but they soon begin. Dallory be a

bustling village, both poor and rich inhabit it. the North Works,

as they be familiarly call, from the fact of Mr. North's be

their chief proprietor, lie a little far on, and Dallory Church

still beyond. it be a straggling parish at well.



amidst the first good house that Dr. Rane come to be one superior to

the rest. a large, square, handsome dwelling, with a pillare portico

close to the village pathway, and a garden behind it.



"I wonder how Mother Gass be to-night?" think the doctor, arrest

his step. "I may as well ask."



his knock be answer by the lady herself, whom he have so

unceremoniously style "Mother Gass." a stout, comfortable-look

dame, richly dress, with a face as red as it be good-natured, and a

curiously-fine lace cap, stand on end with yellow ribbon. Mrs. Gass

possess neither birth nor breeding; she have make an advantageous

match, as you will hear far on: she own many good quality, and

be popularly suppose to be rich enough to buy up the whole of

Dallory Ham. her late husband have be uncle to Oliver Rane, but

neither she nor Oliver presume upon the relationship in their

intercourse with each other. in fact they have never meet until two

year ago.



"I know your knock, Dr. Rane, and come to the door myself. step into

the parlour. I want to speak to you."



the doctor do not want to go in by any mean, and feel catch. he

say he have no time to stay; have merely call, in pass, to ask how

she be.



"well, I'm well this evening: the swimming in the head be less. you

just come in, now. I willn't keep you two minute. shut the door, girl,

after Dr. Rane."



this be to a smart housemaid, who have follow her mistress down the

wide, handsome passage. Dr. Rane perforce step in, very

unwillingly. he feel instinctively convince that Mrs. Gass have hear

of the calamity at the Hall and wish to question he. to avoid this

he would have go a mile any other way.



"I want to get at the truth about Edmund North, doctor. one of the

maid from the Hall call in just now and say he have be frighten

into a fit through some letter; and that you be fetched to he."



"well, that be true," say the doctor, accept the situation.



"my patience!" ejaculate Mrs. Gass. "what be writ in the letter? she

say it be one of they enonymous thing."



"so it be."



"be it writ to himself?"



"no. to Mr. North."



"well, now,"--dropping she voice--"was it about that young woman he

get acquaint with? you know."



"no, no; nothing of that sort." and Dr. Rane, as the short way of

end the matter, give she the detail.



"there be not much in the letter," he say, in confidential tone.

"no harm would have come of it but for Edmund North's frightful access

of passion. if he die, mind,"--the doctor add this in a dreamy

tone, gaze out as if look into the future--"if he die, it

will not be the letter that have kill he, but his own want of

self-control."



"don't talk of dying, doctor. it be to be hope it willn't come to

that."



"it be, indeed."



"and Mr. Richard be not at home, the girl say!"



"neither he nor Captain Bohun. Richard have just come in now."



Mrs. Gass would fain have keep he long, but he tell she the sick

man Ketler be wait for he. this man be one of the North workman,

who have be terribly injure in the arm; Dr. Rane hope to save both

arm and life.



"that receipt for the rhubarb jam Mrs. Cumberland promise: be it ever

come?" ask Mrs. Gass as Dr. Rane be quit the room.



turn back, he put his hat on the table and take out his pocketbook.

Mrs. Cumberland have send it at last. he select the paper from

amongst several other and hand it to she.



"I forgot to leave it when I be here this morning, Mrs. Gass. my

mother give it I yesterday."



between they they drop the receipt. both stoop for it, and their

head come together. there be a slight laugh; in the midst of which

the pocketbook fall on the carpet. some paper flutter out of it,

which the doctor pick up and replace.



"have you get they all, doctor? how be the young lady's cold?"



"what young lady's?" he question.



"Miss Adair's."



"I do not know she have one."



"ah, they lovely girl with their bright face never show their

ailment; and she be lovely, if ever one be lovely in this terrestial

world. goodnight to you, doctor; you're in a mortal hurry."



he stride to the street-door and it close sharply after he. Mrs.

Gass look out of her parlour and see the same smart maid hastening

along the passage: a little too late.



"drat it, wench! be that the way you let gentlefolk show themselves

out?--scuttering to the door when they've get clean away from it.

D'you call that manner?"









CHAPTER II.

ELLEN ADAIR.





the day promise to be as warm as the precede one. the night and

morning mist be go; the sun shine hot and bright. Summer seem

to have come in before its time.



two white gothic villas stand side by side just within the neck of

Dallory Ham, a few yard of garden and some cluster shrub between

they. they be build alike. the side window, face each other over

this strip of ground, be large project bay-window, and belong

to the dining-room. these house be originally erect for two

maiden sister. a large and beautiful garden lie at the back,

surround the two villa, only a slender wire fence, that a child

might have step over, divide it. enter the Ham from the

direction of Dallory, these house stand on the left; in the first of

they live Mrs. Cumberland, the mother of Oliver Rane. she have be

marry twice: hence the difference in name. the second house be

occupy by Dr. Rane himself. they lie back with a strip of grass

before they, the entrance-door be level with the ground.



let we go into the doctor's: turn the handle of the door without

ceremony, as Dr. Rane's more familiar patient be willnot to do. the

hall be small, narrow off at the upper end to a passage, and

light with stain glass. on the left of the entrance be the

consulting-room, not much large than a closet; beyond it be the

dining-room, a spacious apartment, with its bay-window, already speak

of, look to the other house. opposite the dining-room across the

passage be the white-flagged kitchen; and the drawing-room lie in

front, on the right of the entrance. not be furnish it be chiefly

keep shut up. a back-door open to the garden.



Oliver Rane sit in his consulting-room; the _Whitborough Journal_,

damp from the press, in his hand. it be just twelve o'clock and he

have to go out, but the newspaper be attract he. by seven o'clock

that morning he have be at the Hall, and learn that there be no

material change in the patient lie there: he have then go on, early

though it be, to see the man, Ketler. the journal give the detail of

Mr. North's seizure with tolerable accuracy, and conclude its account

in these word: "we have reason to know that a clue have be obtain

to the anonymous writer."



"a clue to the writer!" repeat Dr. Rane, his eye appear glue to

the word. "I wonder if it's true?--No, no; it be not likely," come

the quiet, contemptuous decision. "how should any clue----"



he stop suddenly; rise from the chair, and stand erect and

motionless, as if some thought have strike he. a fine man; almost as

good-look at a casual glance as another who be step in upon

he. the front-door have open, and this one be lightly tap at.

Dr. Rane pause before he answer it, and a fierce look of inquiry,

as if he do not care to be interrupt, shoot from his eye.



"come in."



a tall, slender, and very handsome man, young than Dr. Rane, open

the door slowly. there be a peculiar refinement in his proud fair

feature; a dreamy look in his dark blue eye. an attractive face at

all time and season, whose owner it be impossible to mistake for

anything but an upright, well-breed gentleman. it be Arthur Bohun;

Captain Bohun, as he be very generally call. he be the only son of

Mrs. North by her former marriage with Major Bohun, and of course

stepson to Mr. North.



"any admittance, doctor?"



"always admittance to you," answer the doctor, who could be affable

or not, as suit his mood. "why don't you come in?"



he come in with his pleasant smile; a smile that hide the natural pride

of the face. Oliver Rane put down the newspaper.



"well, be there any change in Edmund North?"



"the very slight in the world, the doctor think; and for the

well," reply Captain Bohun. "Dick tell I. I have not be in

myself since early morning. I cannot bear to look on extreme

suffering."



a ghost of a smile flit across Dr. Rane's feature at the avowal.

he could understand a woman dislike to look on suffering, but not a

man. and the one before he have be a soldier!



Captain Bohun sit down on an uncomfortable wooden stool as he speak,

gently throw back his light summer overcoat. he impart the idea

of never be put out over any earthly thing. the movement display

his cool white waistcoat, across which fall a dainty gold chain with

its transparent sapphire seal of rare and costly beauty.



"you have begin summer early!" remark the doctor, glance at

Captain Bohun's attire.



the clothe be of a delicate shade of grey; look remarkably cool

and nice in conjunction with the white waistcoat. Captain Bohun be

always well dress; it seem a part of himself. to wear the rude and

rough attire that some man affect nowadays, would have be against

his instinct.



"don't sit on that stool of penitence; take the patient's chair," say

the doctor, point to an elbow-chair opposite the window.



"but I be not a patient."



"no. or you'd be at the opposition shop over the way."



Arthur Bohun laugh. "it be of the opposition shop I come to speak

to you--if I come for anything in particular, where's Alexander? be he

keep out of the way; or have he really go to London as people

say?"



"I know nothing about he," return Dr. Rane. "look here--I be

read the account they give in the newspaper. be this last hint

true?"--holding out the journal--"that a clue have be obtain to the

writer of the letter?"



Arthur Bohun run his eye over the sentence to which the doctor's

finger point.



"no, this have no foundation," he promptly answer. "at least so far

as the Hall be concern. as yet we have not find any clue whatever."



"I think so. these newsmonger put forth lie by the bushel. just as

we might do, if we have to cater for an insatiably curious public. but

I fear I must be go out."



Arthur Bohun bring down the fore-leg of the stool, which he have

keep on the tilt, rise, and say a word of apology for having detain

he from his patient. his be essentially a courteous nature,

sensitively regardful of other people's feeling, as man of great

innate refinement be sure to be.



they go into the dining-room, Dr. Rane having leave his hat there,

and pass out together by the large bay-window. the doctor cross at

once to a door in the wall that bind the premise at the back, and

make his exit to the lane beyond, leave Arthur Bohun in the garden.



a garden that on a summer's day seem as a very paradise. with its

cluster shrub, its overhang tree, its leafy glade, its

shrubbery, its miniature rock, its sweet repose, its sweeter

flower. seat in a remote part of that which belong to Mrs.

Cumberland, be one of the lovely girl that eye have ever look

upon. she wear a morning dress of light-colour muslin, with an

edging of lace at the neck and wrist. slight, gentle, charming, with

a peculiar look of grace and refinement, a stranger would have be

almost startled at her beauty. it be a delightful face; the feature

clearly cut; the complexion soft, pure, and delicate, pale and

flush with every emotion. in the dark brown eye there be a

singularly sweet expression; the dark brown hair take a lustrously

bright tinge in the sunlight.



a natural arbour of tree and branch have be form overhead: she

sit on a garden bench, behind a rustic table. before she, at a short

distance, a fall cascade trickle down the artificial rock, and

thence wind away, a tiny stream, amidst fern, violet, primrose,

and other wild plant. a plot of green grass, smooth and soft as the

moss of the rock, lie immediately at her foot, and glimpse of

stately flower be catch through the tree. their rich perfume

came waft in a sudden breeze to the girl's sense, and she look up

gratefully from her work; some small matter of silken embroidery.



and now you could see the singular refinement and delicacy of the

face, the pleasant expression of the soft bright eye. a bird lodge

itself on a branch close by, and begin a song. her lip part with a

smile of greeting. by way of reward it, off he fly, dip his

beak into the run stream, and soar away out of her sight. as be

the case sometimes in life.



on the table lie a handful of violet, pick short off at the

blossom. almost unconsciously, as it seem, her thought far away,

she begin toy with they, and fall insensibly into the french

schoolgirl' play, tell off the flower. "M'aime-t-il?" be the

first momentous question; and then the pastime, a blossom be tell

off with every answer. "Oui. Non. Un peu. Beaucoup. Pas du tout.

Passionnément." and so the round go on, until the last violet be

reach. it come, as chance have it, with the last word, and she, in an

access of rapture, her soft cheek glow, her sweet lip parting,

catch up the flower and press it to her lip.



"Il m'aime passionnément!"



ah, foolish girl! the oracle seem as true as if it have come direct

from heaven. but can we not remember the ecstasy such necromancy once

bring to ourselves!



with her blush deepen as she wake, startling, into reality; with

a smile at her own folly; with a sense of maidenly shame for indulge

in the pastime, she push the violet together, thread a needleful

of green floss silk, and go on soberly with her work. a few minute,

and then either eye or ear be attract by something ever so far off,

and she sit quite still. quite still outwardly; but oh! the sudden

emotion that rise like a lightning flash within! and she know the

footstep. every vein be tingle; every pulse throbbing; the pink on

her cheek deepen; the life blood of her heart rush wildly on, and

she press her hand upon her bosom to still it.



he be pass on from Dr. Rane's to the other house, when he catch a

glimpse of her dress through the tree, and turn aside. nothing

could have be quieter or more undemonstrative than the meeting; and

yet a shrewd observer, skilled in secret, have not fail to read the

truth--that both alike love. Captain Bohun go up, calm as befit

a well-breed man: shake hand after the fashion of society, and

apparently with as little interest: but on his face the flush also

shine with all its tell-tale vividness; the hand that touch her

thrill almost to pain. she have rise to receive he: as calm

outwardly as he, but her sense be in wild confusion.



she begin to go on with her work again in a hurried, tremble sort of

fashion when he sit down. the day, for she, have turn to Eden; all

thing seem to discourse sweet music.



true love--passionate, pure love--be not fluent of speech, whatever

the world may say, or poet teach. Dr. Rane and Miss North think

they love each other: and so they do, after a sensible, sober

manner: they could have converse with mutual fluency for ever and a

day; but their love be not _this_ love. it be the custom of modern

writer to ignore it: the prevail fashion be to be matter-of-fact;

realistic; people don't talk of love now, and of course don't feel it:

the capacity for it have die out; habit have change. it be false

sophistry. we cannot put off human nature as we do a garment.



Captain Bohun be the first to break the silence. _she_ have be

content to live in it by his side for ever: it be more eloquent, too,

than his word be.



"what a lovely day it be, Ellen!"



"yes. I think summer have come: we shall scarcely have it warm than

this in July. and oh, how charming everything be!"



"yes. yesterday I have a ride of ten mile between green hedge in

which the May be begin to blossom. envious darkness have shut out

the world before I reach home again."



"and I sit out here all the afternoon," she answer--and perhaps she

unconsciously speak in pursuance of the thought, that she have sit out

wait and hope for he. "where do you go, Arthur?"



"to Bretchley. some of my old brother officer be quarter there:

and I spend the day with they. what's that for?"



he allude to the piece of work. she smile as she hold it out in she

right hand, on the third finger of which be a plain gold ring. a

small piece of white canvas with a pink rose and part of a green leaf

already work upon it in bright floss silk.



"guess."



"Nay, how can I? for a doll's cushion?"



"oh, Arthur!" come the laugh exclamation. "if I tell you, you must

keep counsel, mind that, for it be a secret, and I be work it under

difficulty, out of Mrs. Cumberland's sight. don't you think I have

do a great deal? I only begin it yesterday."



"well, what's it for?" he ask, put his hand underneath it as an

excuse, perhaps, for touch the finger that hold it. "a fire-screen

for pretty face?"



the young lady shake her head. "it's for a kettle-holder."



"a kettle-holder! what a prosy end!"



"it be for Mrs. Cumberland's invalid kettle that she keep in her

bedroom. the handle get hot a day or two ago, and she burn her hand.

I shall put it on some morning to surprise she."



a silence ensue. half their intercourse be make up of pause:

the eloquent language of true love. Captain Bohun, think how

sweet-natured be the girl by his side, play abstractedly with the

blossom lie on the table.



"what have you be do with all these violet, Ellen?"



"nothing," she reply; and down go the scissor. but that she

stoop at once, Captain Bohun might have see the sudden flush on the

delicate face, and wonder at it: a flush of remembrance. _Il m'aime

passionnément_. well, so he do.



"please don't entangle my silk, Captain Bohun."



he laugh as he put down the bright gold skein. "shall I help you to

wind it, Ellen?"



"thank you, but we don't wind floss silk. it would deaden its beauty.

Arthur! do you know that the swallow have come?"



"the swallow! then this summer weather will stay with we, for those

bird have a sure instinct. it be early for they to be here."



"I see one this morning. it may be only an avant-courier, come to

report on the weather to the rest."



she laugh lightly at her own word, and there ensue another pause.

Captain Bohun break it.



"what a shocking thing this be about Edmund North!"



"what be a shocking thing?" she ask, with indifference, go on

with her work as she speak. Arthur Bohun, who be busy again with the

pale blue violet, scarcely as blue as his own eye, lift his face

and look at she.



"I mean altogether. the illness; the letter; the grief at home. it be

all shocking."



"be Edmund North ill? I do not know it."



"Ellen!"



live in the very atmosphere of the illness, amidst its bustle,

distress, and attendant fact, to Arthur Bohun it seem almost

impossible that she should be ignorant of it.



"why, what have Rane be about, not to tell you?"



"I don't know. what be the matter with Edmund North?"



Captain Bohun explain the illness and its cause. her work drop on

her knee as she listen; her face grow pale with interest. she never

once interrupt he; every sympathetic feeling within she be arouse

to warm indignation.



"an anonymous letter!" she at length exclaim. "that's bad than a

stab."



"a fellow, write one of malice, put himself beyond the pale of

decent society: shooting would be too good for he," quietly remark

Captain Bohun. "here come a summon for you, I expect, Ellen."



even so. one of the maid approach, say Mrs. Cumberland be

downstairs; and so the interview be break up. Captain Bohun would

perforce have take his departure, but Miss Adair invite he in--to

tell the sad story to Mrs. Cumberland. only too glad be he of any

plea that keep he by Ellen's side.



put her work away in her pocket, she take the arm that be hold

out, and they go wander through the garden; linger by the

cascade, dream in the dark cypress walk, stand over the bed of

beautiful flower. a seductive time; life's summer; but a time that

never stay, for the frost of winter and reality succeed it surely

and swiftly.



nothing have be say between they, but each be conscious of what the

other feel. neither have whisper in so many word, "I love you."

Ellen do not hint that she have watch for he the whole of the past

livelong day with love's sick longing; he do not confess how lost

the day have be to he, how bad than weary, because it do not

bring he to her presence. these avowal might come in time, but they

would not be need.



step in through the centre door of the bay window, as Arthur

Bohun have make his exit from the opposite one, they look round for

Mrs. Cumberland, and do not see she. she be in the drawing-room on

the other side the small hall, sit near the Gothic window that

face the road. a pale, reticent, lady-like woman, always suffer,

but make more of her suffering than she need have do--as her son,

Dr. Rane, not over-dutifully thought. her eye be light and cold;

her flaxen hair, band smoothly under a cap, be turn grey. but

that Mrs. Cumberland be quite occupy with self, and very little

with her ward, Ellen Adair, she might have notice before now the

suggestive intimacy between that young lady and Arthur Bohun.



"Captain Bohun be here, Mrs. Cumberland," say Ellen, when they

enter. "he have some sad news to tell you."



"and the extraordinary part of the business be that you should not

have hear it before," add Arthur, as he shake hand with Mrs.

Cumberland.



Mrs. Cumberland's rich black silk gown rustle a very little as she

respond to the greeting; but there be no smile on her grey face,

her cold eye wear no bright light. in her way she be glad to see

he: that is, she have no objection to see he; but gladness and

Mrs. Cumberland seem to have part company. the suffering that

arise from constant pain make a self-absorb nature doubly selfish.



"what be the news that Ellen speak of, Captain Bohun?"



he stand lean against the mantelpiece as he tell the tale: tell it

systematically; the first advent of the anonymous letter to Mr. North;

the angry, passionate spirit in which Edmund North have take it up;

his stormy interview with the surgeon, Alexander; the subsequent

attack, and the hopelessness in which he be lie. for once Mrs.

Cumberland be arouse to feel sympathy in another's suffering:

she listen with painful interest.



"and it be _oliver_ who be call in first to Edmund North!" she

presently exclaim, with emphasis, as if unable to credit the fact.



"yes."



"but how be it he do not step in here afterwards to tell I the

news?" she add, resentfully.



Captain Bohun could not answer that so readily. Ellen Adair, ever

ready to find a charitable excuse for the world, turn to Mrs.

Cumberland.



"Dr. Rane may have have patient to see. perhaps he do not return home

until too late to come here."



"yes, he do; I see his lamp burn before ten o'clock," be Mrs.

Cumberland's answer. "ah! this be another proof that I be be

forget," she go on, bitterly. "when a woman have see fifty year

of life, she be old in the sight of her child, and they go then

their own way in the world, leave she to coldness and neglect."



"but, dear Mrs. Cumberland, Dr. Rane do not neglect you," say

Ellen, strike with the injustice of the complaint. "he be ever the

first to come in and amuse you with what news he have."



"and in this instance he may have keep silence from a good motive--the

wish to spare you pain," add Captain Bohun.



"true, true," murmur Mrs. Cumberland, her mind take a more

reasonable view of the matter. "Oliver have always be dutiful to I."



Departing, Captain Bohun cross the road to Mr. Alexander's; a slight

limp visible in his gait. the mystery that appear to surround the

surgeon's movement at present, puzzle he not a little; his

prolong absence seem unaccountable. the surgery, through which he

enter, be empty, and he open the door lead from it to the

house. a maid-servant meet he.



"be Mr. Alexander at home?"



"no, sir."



"Papa's go to London," call out a young gentleman of ten, who come

run along the passage, crack a whip. "he go last night. they

send for he."



"who send for he?" ask Captain Bohun.



"the people. Mamma's go too. they be come home to-day; and

mamma's go to bring I a chinese puzzle and a box of chocolate if

she have time to buy they."



not much information, this. as Captain Bohun turn out again, he

stand at the door, wish he have a decent plea to take he over to

Mrs. Cumberland's again. he be an idle man; live only in the sweet

pastime of make that silent love.



but Mrs. North never suspect that he be make it, or know that he

be intimate at Mrs. Cumberland's. still less do she suspect that

Mrs. Cumberland have a young lady inmate name Ellen Adair. it would

have startle she to terror.









CHAPTER III.

in MRS. GASS'S PARLOUR.





early on the following morning the death-bell ring out from the

church at Dallory proclaim to those who hear it that Edmund North

have pass to his rest. he have never recover consciousness, and die

some thirty-six hour after the attack.



amongst those who do not hear it be Oliver Rane. the doctor have be

call out at daybreak to a country patient in an opposite direction,

return between eight and nine o'clock.



he sit at breakfast in the dining-room, unconscious of the morning's

calamity. the table stand in front of the large bay-window.



"she have do it too much--stupid thing!" exclaim Dr. Rane, cut

a slice of ham in two and apostrophize his unconscious servant.

"yesterday it be hardly warm through. just like them!--make a

complaint, and they rush to the other extreme. I wonder how thing be

go on there this morning?"



he glance up towards the distant quarter where the Hall be situate,

for his query have reference to Edmund North; and this give he the

opportunity of see something else: a woman step out of Mrs.

Cumberland's dining-room. she be get on for forty, tall as a

may-pole, with inquisitive green eye, sallow cheek, remarkably thin,

as if she have lose her tooth, and a bunch of black ringlet on either

side of her face. she wear the white apron and cap of a servant, but

look one of a superior class. emerge from the opposite window, she

step across the wire fence and approach Dr. Rane.



"what do Jelly want now?" he mentally ask.



a curious name, no doubt, but it be her. Fanny Jelly. when Mrs.

Cumberland have engage she as upper maid, she decide to call she by

the latter name, Fanny be her own.



Jelly enter without ceremony--she be not give to observe much at

the good of time. she have come to say that he need not provide

anything for dinner; her mistress mean to send he in a fowl--if he

would accept it.



"with pleasure, tell she," say Dr. Rane. "how be my mother this

morning, Jelly?"



"she have have a good night, and be pretty tolerable," reply Jelly,

give a backward fling to her fly cap-string. "the foreign

letter have come in; two for she, one for Miss Adair."



Dr. Rane, not particularly interested in the say foreign letter,

go on with his breakfast. Jelly, with characteristic composure,

stand at ease just inside the window watch the process.



"that ham be dry up to fiddle-string," she suddenly say.



"yes. Phillis have do it too much."



"and I should like to have the doing of she!" speak Jelly in wrathful

tone. "it be a sin to spoil good food."



"so it be," say Dr. Rane.



"so that poor young man's go!" she resume, as he crack an egg.



the doctor lift his head quickly. "what young man?"



"Edmund North. he die at half-past seven this morning."



"who say so?" cry Dr. Rane, a startled look cross his face.



"the milkman tell I: he hear the pass-bell toll out. you needn't

be surprised, sir: there have be no hope from the first."



"but there have be hope," dispute the doctor. "there be hope

yesterday at midday, there be hope last night. I don't believe he be

dead."



"well, sir, then you must disbelieve it," equably answer Jelly; but

she glance keenly at he from her green eye. "Edmund North be as

certainly dead as that I stand here."



he seemed strangely move at the tiding: a quiver stir his lip,

the colour in his face fade to whiteness. Jelly, having look as

much as she choose, turn to depart.



"then we may send in the fowl, sir?"



"yes, yes."



he watch she dreamily as she cross the low fence and disappear

within her proper domain; he push the neglect ham from he, he

turn sick at the lightly do egg, of which the shell have just be

break. what, though he prefer egg lightly do in calm time?

calm time be not these. the news do indeed trouble he in no

measure degree: it be so sad for a man in the prime of early life to

be cut off thus. Edmund North be only a year or two old than

himself: two day ago he have be as full of health and life, deep in

the plan and project of this world, think little of the next.

Sad? it be horrible. and Dr. Rane's breakfast be spoil for that

day.



he get up to walk the room restlessly: he look at himself in the

glass; possibly to see how the news might have affect his feature;

in all he do there be a hurried, confused sort of motion, betray

that the mind must be in a state of perturbation. by-and-by he

snatch up his hat, and go forth, take the direction of the Hall.



"I ought to call. it will look well for I to call. it be a civility I

owe they," he keep repeat at interval, as he stride along. just as

though he think in his inmost heart he ought _not_ to call, and be

seek argument to excuse himself from do so.



how eager he be to be there and see and hear all that be

transpire, he alone know. no power could have stop he, whether

to go be suitable or unsuitable; for he have a strong will. he do

not take the lane this time, but go straight along the high-road,

turn in at the iron gate, and up the chestnut avenue. the tender

green of the tree be beautiful: bird sing; the blue sky flicker

through the wave leave. wind on, Dr. Rane meet Thomas Hepburn,

the undertaker and carpenter: a sickly look but intelligent and

respectable man.



"be it you, Hepburn?"



"yes, sir; I've be in to take the order. what an awful thing it

be!" he continue in a low tone, glance round at the closed window,

as if fearful they might detect what he be say. "the scoundrel who

write that letter ought to be try for murder when they discover he.

and they be safe to do that, soon or later."



"the writer could have do no great harm but for Edmund North's

allow himself to go into that fatal passion."



"an anonymous writer be a coward," rejoin Hepburn with scorn. "they

say there'll not be an inquest."



"an inquest!" repeat the doctor, to whom the idea have never

occur. "there's no necessity for an inquest."



"well, doctor, I suppose the law would in strictness exact it. but Mr.

North be against it, and it's think his wish will be respect."



"any of the medical man can furnish a certificate of the cause of

death. I could do it myself."



"yes, of course. but I've no time to stay talk," add the

undertaker. "good-day to you, sir."



the next to come forth from the house be Alexander, the surgeon. Dr.

Rane rub his eye, almost think they deceive he. the brother

practitioner shake hand; and Mr. Alexander--a little man with dark

hair--explain what have seem inexplicable.



it seem that the very same evening delivery which bring Mr. North

the anonymous letter, have bring one to Mr. Alexander. his be from

London, inform he that he have be appoint to a post connect

with one of the hospital, and request he to go up _at once_ for a

few hour. Mr. Alexander make ready, send for a fly, and start with

his wife for the station, bid the driver halt at Mr. North's iron

gate. as he be in attendance at that time on Edmund North, he wish

to give notice of his temporary absence. to be furiously attack by

Edmund North the moment he enter the door, and as it seem to he,

without rhyme or reason, put Mr. Alexander into somewhat of a passion

also. there be no time for elucidation, neither be a single word he

say listen to, and the surgeon hasten out to his fly. he have

return by the first train this morning--London be not much more

than an hour's journey by rail--and find that Edmund North have die

of that self-same passion. half paralyze with grief and horror, Mr.

Alexander hasten to the Hall; and be now come from it, having

fully exculpate himself in all way in the sight of its master.

almost as fully he speak now to Dr. Rane; in his grief, in his

straightforward candour, nothing selfish or sinister could hide

itself.



the transaction in regard to draw the bill have be wholly edmund

North's, some month ago he have seek Mr. Alexander, say he be

in want of a sum of money--a hundred pound; he do not know how to

put his hand just then upon it, not wish to apply to his own

family; would he, the surgeon, like a good fellow, lend it? at

first, Mr. Alexander have excuse himself; for one thing he have not the

money--fancy a poor country surgeon with a hundred pound loose cash,

he say; but eventually he fall in with Edmund North's pleading. a

bill be draw, both of they be liable, and be discount by Dale,

the lawyer, of Whitborough. when the bill have become due (about a week

ago) neither of they could meet it; and the matter be arrange with

Dale by a second bill.



"what I cannot understand be, how Edmund North, poor fellow, could

have pitch upon I as the writer of that letter," observe the

surgeon to Dr. Rane, when he have finish his recital. "he must have

go clean daft to think it. I have no reason for disclose it; I do

not fear but he would eventually meet the bill."



"I tell they you could not have write it," quietly rejoin the

doctor.



Mr. Alexander lift his hand with angry emphasis. "Rane, I'd give a

thousand pound out of my pocket--if I be a rich man and have it--to

know who write the letter and work the mischief. I never disclose

the transaction to a live soul; I don't believe Edmund North do;

besides ourselves, it be know only to the discounter. Dale be a safe

man; so it seem a perfect mystery. and mark you, Rane--that letter

be write to damage I at the Hall, not Edmund North."



Dr. Rane gaze at the other in great surprise. "to damage you?"



"it be the view I take of it. and so, on reflection, do Richard

North."



"Nonsense, Alexander!"



"if ever the hide particular come to light, you will find that it

be not nonsense, but truth," be the surgeon's answer. "I must have

some enemy in the neighbourhood, I suppose; most professional man

have; and they no doubt hope to do for I with Mr. North. the north

in a degree sway other people here, and so I should have lose my

practice, and be drive away."



Oliver have raise his cane, and be lightly flick the shrub by

which he stand, his air that of one in deep thought.



"I confess I do not follow you, Alexander. your ill-doing or

well-do be nothing to Mr. North; his son's of course be. if you

live by draw bill, it could be no concern of his."



"draw bill on my own score would certainly be of no moment to Mr.

North; but draw they in _conjunction with his son_ would be. upon

which of we would he naturally lie the blame? upon a young, heedless

man, as Edmund North be; or upon I, a middle-aged, establish

member of society, with a home and a family? the case speak for

itself."



Oliver Rane do not appear quite to admit this. he think the

probability lie against Mr. Alexander's theory, rather than with it.

"of course," he slowly say, "look at it in that light, the letter

would tell either way. but I think you must be wrong."



"no, I be not. whoever write that missive do it to injure I. I

seem to see it, as by instinct, the minute Mr. North give I the

letter to read. if the motive be to drive I from Dallory, it might

have be spare, and Edmund North save, for I be go to quit it of

my own accord."



"to quit Dallory?"



"in a month's time from this I and mine will have leave it for London.

the situation now give to I I have be try for, under the rose,

these six month past."



"but why do you wish to leave Dallory?"



"to well myself, as the servant say," reply Mr. Alexander, "and

the move will do that considerably. another reason be that my wife

dislike Dallory. Madam turn up her nose at we socially when we

first settle here; and that, in a degree, keep the good society

close to Mrs. Alexander. she be well-bear, have be rear a lady;

and of course it be: enough to set she against the place. besides,

all our friend be in London; and so, you see, if my exit into the

wilderness be what that anonymous individual be drive at, he might

have gain his end without crime, have he wait only a short time."



"I hate Mrs. North," dreamily speak Dr. Rane; "and I be sure she hate

I, though the wherefore to I be incomprehensible."



"look there," speak the surgeon, drop his voice.



both have simultaneously catch sight of Mrs. North. she be pass

the shrubbery close by, and look out at they. they raise their

hat. Mr. Alexander make a movement to approach she; she see it, and

turn from he back to the dark wall with her usual sweeping step. so

he remain where he be.



"she ask to see I on Tuesday night when I be leave; want to

know if I could tell she who write the letter," say Dr. Rane.



"she suspect I, I suppose."



"she appear to suspect--_not_ you, but some one else; and that be

Richard North."



"Richard North!" ironically repeat Mr. Alexander. "she know quite

well that he be above suspicion; perhaps she be only try to divert

attention from some other person: she be make up of craft. who know

but she write the letter herself?"



"Mrs. North!"



"upon my word and honour, the thought be in my mind, Rane. if the

motive of the letter be as you think--to do Edmund North damage with

his father--I know of only one person who would attempt it, and that

be Mrs. North."



their eye meet: a strange light shone momentarily in Oliver Rane's. in

say that he hate Mrs. North, he speak truth; but there be every

excuse for the feeling, for it be quite certain that Mrs. North have

long be work he what ill she could. his marriage with Bessy be

be delay, and delay entirely through her covert opposition.



"that she be an entirely unscrupulous woman, and would stand at

nothing, I feel sure," speak Dr. Rane, draw a deep breath. "but, as

to the letter----"



"well, as to the letter?" cry the surgeon, in the pause. "I don't

say she foresee that it would kill he."



"this would disprove your theory of its be write to damage you,

Alexander."



"not altogether. the damaging another, more or less, would be of no

moment at all to Mrs. North; she would crush any one without scruple."



"I'm sure she would crush I," speak Dr. Rane. "Heaven know why; I

don't."



"well, if she do write the letter, I think her conscience must smite

she as she look at the poor dead man lie there. good-day, Rane: I

have not be home to see my little one yet. Mrs. Alexander be

remain in town for a day or two."



in talk, they have walk slowly to the end of the avenue; Mr.

Alexander pass through the gate, and take the road towards the Ham.



"I may as well go on at once, and see Ketler," think Dr. Rane. "time

enough to call at the Hall as I return."



so he go on towards Dallory. two gentleman pass he on horseback,

county magistrate, who be probably go to the Hall. the sight of

they turn his thought to the subject of an inquest: he begin

speculate why Mr. North wish to evade it, and whether he would

succeed in do so. for his own part, he do not see that the case,

speak in point of law, call for one. Hepburn say it do; and he

be suppose, as chief undertaker in Dallory, to understand these

thing.



Deep in reflection, the doctor stride on; when, in pass Mrs. Gass's

house, a sharp tapping at the window salute his ear. it come from

that lady herself, and she throw up the sash.



"just come in, will you, Dr. Rane? I want you for something very

particular."



he feel sure she only want to question he about the death, and

would a great deal rather have go on: but with her red and smile

face invite he in peremptorily, he do not see his way to refuse

she.



"and so he be _gone_--that poor young man!" she begin, meet he in

her smart dress and pink cap. "when I hear the death-bell ring out

this morning, it sound to I a'most like my own knell."



"yes, he be go--unhappily," murmur Dr. Rane.



"well, now, doctor, the next thing be--what become of you yesterday?"



the change of subject appear peculiar.



"become of I?" repeat Dr. Rane. "how do you mean?"



"all the mortal day I be stick at this parlour window, wait to see

you go by," proceed Mrs. Gass. "you never pass once."



"yes, I do. I pass in the morning."



"my eye must have go a-maying then, for they never see you," be

Mrs. Gass's answer.



"it be before my usual hour. I be call out early to a sick man in

Dallory, and I take the opportunity to see Ketler at the same time."



"then that account for the milk in the cocoa-nut; and I waste my

time for nothing," be her good-temper rejoinder.



"why do you want to see I pass?"



Mrs. Gass pause for a moment before reply. she glance round to

see that the door be close, and drop her voice almost to a

whisper.



"Dr. Rane, who write that fatal letter?"



"I cannot tell."



"do _you?_"



Oliver Rane stare at she, a sudden flush of anger dye his brow. no

wonder: the question, put with emphatic earnestness, seem an

assertion, almost like that startling reproach of Nathan to David.



"Mrs. Gass, I do not know what you mean."



"I see you don't relish it, doctor. but I be a plain body, as you

know; and when in doubt about a thing, pleasant or unpleasant, I like

to ask an explanation straight out."



"but why should you be in doubt about this?" he inquire wonderingly.

"what can induce you to connect I with the letter?"



Mrs. Gass take she portly person across the room to a desk; unlocked

it, and bring forth a fold piece of paper. she hand it to Dr.

Rane.



it be not a letter; it could not be the copy of one: but it do

appear to be the rough sketch of the anonymous missive that have

reach Mr. North. some of the sentence be write two or three

time over; in a close hand, in a scrawling hand, in a reversed hand,

as if the writer be practise different style; in other the

construction be alter, word be erase, other substitute.

Oliver Rane gaze upon it as one in complete bewilderment.



"what _be_ this, Mrs. Gass?"



"be it not the skeleton of the letter?"



"no, certainly not. and yet----" Dr. Rane break off and run his eye

over the line again and again. "there be a similarity in some of the

phrase," he suddenly say.



"some of the phrase be identical," return Mrs. Gass. "when Mr.

Richard North be here yesterday, I get he to repeat over to I the

word of the letter; word for word, so far as he remember 'em, and I

know 'em for _these_ word. whoever writ that letter to Mr. North,

doctor, first of all try his sentence and his hand, on this paper,

practise how he could well do it."



"how do you come by this?"



"you leave it here the night before last."



"_i_ leave it here!" repeat Dr. Rane, look as if he mentally

question whether Mrs. Gass be in her right sense.



"yes. you."



"but you must be dream, Mrs. Gass."



"I never do dream--that sort of dream," reply Mrs. Gass. "look

here"--putting her stout hand, cover with costly ring, on his

coat-sleeve--"didn't you upset your pocketbook here that night? well,

this piece of paper fall out of it."



"it could not have do anything of the sort," he repeat, get

flushed and angry again. "all the paper that fall out of my

pocketbook I pick up and return to it."



"you don't pick this up; it must have flutter away unseen. just

after you be go I drop my spectacle-case, and in stoop for

it, I see this piece of paper lie under the claw of the table."



"but it could not have come out of my pocketbook. just tell I, if

you please, Mrs. Gass, what should bring such a document in my

possession?"



"that's just what I cann't tell. the paper be not there before

candle-light; I'll answer for that much; so where else could it have

come from?"



the last word be not speak as an assertion of her view, but as a

question. Dr. Rane look at she, she at he; both seem equally

puzzle.



"have you any visitor last evening besides myself?" he ask.



"not a soul. the only person that come into the parlour, bar my

own servant, be Molly Green, under-housemaid at the Hall. she live

with I once, and call in sometimes in pass to ask how I be. they

send she into Dallory for something want at the chemist's, and she

look in to tell I. the thing have just happen."



Dr. Rane's brow lose its perplexity: an easy smile, as if the mystery

be solve, cross his face. the hint recently give he by Mr.

Alexander be in his mind.



"I'm glad you've tell I this, Mrs. Gass. the paper be more likely to

have be leave by Molly Green than by I. it may have drop from her

petticoat."



"Goodness bless the man! from her petticoat! why, she have run all the

way from the Hall. and how be she likely to pick it up in _that_

house--even though her gown have be finish off with fish-hook?"



"what cause have I give you to suspect _I_ of this?" retort Dr.

Rane in harsh tone.



"only this--that I don't see where the paper could have come from but

out of your own pocketbook," reply Mrs. Gass frankly. "I have no

other reason to suspect you; I'd as soon suspect myself. it be just a

mystery, and nothing else."



"whatever the mystery may be, it be not connect with my pocketbook,

Mrs. Gass," he emphatically say. "do you mention this to Richard

North?"



"no. nor to anybody else. it be not a pleasant thing to speak of, you

see."



"not a pleasant thing for I, certainly, to be suspect of having

drop that paper. the culprit, an innocent one, no doubt, must have

be molly Green."



"I never be so bring up in all my life," cry the puzzled woman.

"as to Molly Green--it must be just a fancy of your, doctor, for it

never can be fact."



Oliver Rane draw his chair a little near to Mrs. Gass, and whisper

a word of the doubt touch Mrs. North. he only speak of it _as_ a

doubt; a hint at most; but Mrs. Gass be not slow to take it.



"heaven help the woman!--if it's her work."



"but this must not be breathe aloud," he say, take alarm. "it may

be a false suspicion."



"don't fear I: it's a thing too grave for I to mix myself up in,"

be the reply: and to give Mrs. Gass her due, she do look scared in

no slight degree. "Dr. Rane, I be sorry for say what I do to you.

it be the impossibility, as I take it, of anything's having leave it

here but that flutter of paper from your pocketbook. whoever would

have give a thought to Molly Green?"



Dr. Rane make no answer.



"she put her basket down by the door there, and come up the room to

look at my geranium; I hold the candle for she. I remember she catch

her crinoline on the corner of the iron fender, and it give she a

twist round. the idiot that girl make of themselves with they big

crinoline! perhaps it drop from she then."



"well, let we bury it in silence, Mrs. Gass; it be only a doubt at

good," say the prudent but less eloquent physician. "you will allow

I to take this," he add allude to the paper. "I should like to

examine it at leisure."



"take it, and welcome," she answer; "I'm glad to be rid of it. as to

bury it in silence, we have well, I expect, both do that."



"even to Richard North," he enjoin rather anxiously.



"even to Richard North. I have keep secret in my day, doctor, and can

keep 'em again."



Dr. Rane put the paper in his pocketbook, deposit that in the

breast-pocket of his coat, and take his departure. but now, be a

shrewd man, a suspicion that he would not have give utterance to for

the whole world, lie on Dr. Rane--that it be more in accordance with

probability that the paper have drop out of his pocketbook than

from Molly Green's petticoat, see they be _not_ finish off with

fish-hook.



a heavy weight lie there on his breast! and he go along with a

loitering step, ask himself how the paper could have originally

come there.









CHAPTER IV.

alone with the truth.





Oliver Rane be in his bedchamber; a front apartment face the road.

it will be as well to give a word of description to this first floor,

for it may prove need as the tale go on. it consist of a large

landing-place, its board white and bare, with a spacious window

look to the side of the other house, as the dining-room beneath it

do. wide, low and curtainless be this window; give, in conjunction

with the bare floor and wall, a stare appearance to the place.

Mrs. Cumberland's opposite landing (could you have see it) present

a very different aspect, with its rich carpet, its statue, vase,

bookcase, and its pretty window-drapery. Dr. Rane could not afford

luxury yet; or, indeed, superfluous furniture of any sort. the

stair lead almost close to this window, so that in come down from

any of the bedroom, or the upper floor, you have to face it.



to get into Dr. Rane's chamber--the good in the house--an ante-room

have to be pass through, and its door be opposite the large window.

two chamber open from the back of the landing: they face the back

lane that run along beyond the garden wall. above, in the roof, be

two other room, both three-cornered. Phillis, the old serve-woman,

sleep on that floor in one of they, Dr. Rane on this: the house have no

other inmate.



the ante-room have no furniture: unless some curious-look article

lie on the floor could be call so. they seem to consist chiefly

of glass: jar cover in dust, a cylindrical glass-pump, and other

thing belong to chemistry, of which science the doctor be fond.

certainly the architect have not make the most of this floor, or he

would never have give so much space to the landing. but if this

ante-room be not furnish, Dr. Rane's chamber be; and well

furnish too. the wall be white and gold, the dressing-table and

glass stand before the window and opposite the door. on the left be

the fireplace; the handsome white arabian bedstead be pick out with

gold, and its hanging of green damask, match the window drapery and

the soft colour of the carpet.



seat at the round table in the middle of the room, his hand raise

to support his head, be Dr. Rane. he have only just come in, and it

be now one o'clock--his usual dinner hour. it be that same morning

mention in the last chapter, when he have quit Mrs. Gass's house

with that dangerous piece of paper weigh upon his pocket and his

heart. he have be detain out. as he be enter the house of the

sick man, Ketler, whom he have proceed at once to see, a bustle in

the street, and much wild running of woman, warn he that something

must have happen. two man have fall into the river at the back of

the North Works; and excited people be shout that they be

drown. not quite: as Dr. Rane see when he reach the spot: not

beyond hope of restoration. patiently the doctor persevere in his

endeavour. he bring life into they at length; and stay afterwards

care for they. after that, he have Ketler and other patient to see,

and it be nearly one when he bend his step towards home. in the

morning he have say to himself that he would call at the Hall on his

return; but he pass its gate; perhaps because it be his dinner

hour, for one o'clock be strike.



hang up his hat in the small hall, leave his cane in the

corner--a pretty trifle with a gold stag for its handle--he be make

straight for the stair, when the servant, Phillis, come out of the

kitchen. a little woman of some five-and-fifty year, with high

shoulder, and her head carry forward. her chin and nose be

sharp now, but the once good-look face be meek and mild, the sweet

dark eye be subdue, and the hair, peep from beneath the close

white cap, be grey. she wear a dark cotton gown and check apron. a

tidy-look, respectable woman, in spite of her unfashionable

appearance.



"be that you, sir? they folk have be over from the brick-kiln,

say the woman's not so well to-day, if you'd please to go to she."



Dr. Rane nod. he go on up the stair and into his own room, the

door of which he lock. why? Phillis be not in the habit of

intrude upon he, and there be no one else in the house. the first

thing he do be to take the paper receive from Mrs. Gass out of his

pocketbook, and read it attentively twice over. then he strike a

match, set fire to it, and watch it consume away in the empty grate.

a dangerous memento, whosesoever hand have pen it; and the physician

do well, in the interest of humanity, to put it out of sight for

ever. the task over, he lean against the window-frame, and lapse

into thought. he be dwell upon the death at Dallory Hall, and what

it might bring forth.



Hepburn, the undertaker, be right. there be to be no inquest. so

much Dr. Rane have learn from Richard North: who have hasten to the

work on hearing of the accident to his man. the two Whitborough

doctor have give the certificate of death: apoplexy, to which there

have be a previous tendency, though immediately bring on by

excitement: and nothing more be require by law. from a word speak

by Richard, Dr. Rane gather that it be madam who have set her veto

against an inquest. and quite right too; there be no necessity

whatever for one, have be the comment make by Oliver Rane to Richard.

but now--now when he be alone with himself and the naked truth: when

there be no man at hand whose opinion it might be well to humour or

deceive: no eye upon he save God's, he could not help acknowledge

that have he be Mr. North, have it be his son who be thus cut off

from life, he should have cause an inquest to be hold. ay, ten

inquest, an' the law would have allow they; if by that mean he

might have trace the letter home to its writer.



quit the window, he sit down at the table and bend his forehead

upon his hand. never in his whole life have anything so affect he as

this death: and it be perhaps natural that he should set himself to

see whether, or not, any sort of excuse might be find for the

anonymous writer.



he begin by put himself in idea in the writer's place, and argue

the point for he: for and against. chiefly _for_; it be on that side

his bias lean. it be very easy, as the world know, to find a plea

for those in whom we be interested or on whom misfortune fall; it be

so natural to indulge for their sake in a little sophistry. such

sophistry come now to the help of the physician.



"what need have Edmund North to fly into a furious passion?" run the

self-argument. "only a madman might have be expect to do so. there

be nothing in the letter that need have excite he, absolutely

nothing. it be probably write with a very harmless intention;

certainly the writer never could have dream that it might have the

effect of destroy a life."



_destroy a man's life!_ a flush pass into Oliver Rane's face at

the thought, dyeing neck and brow. and, with it, recur the word of

Hepburn--that the writer be a murderer and might come to be try for

it. a murderer! there be no other self-reproach under heaven that can

bring home so much anguish to the conscience. but--could a man be

justly call a murderer if he have never have think or intention of

do anything of the kind?



"halt here," say Dr. Rane, suddenly speak aloud, as if he be a

special pleader argue in a law court. "can a man be call a

murderer who have never have the small intention of murder--who

would have fly in horror from the bare idea? let we suppose it

be--Mrs. North--who write the letter? Alexander suspect she, at any

rate. put it that she have some motive for write it. it might have

be a good motive--that of stop Edward North in his downward

career, as the letter intimate--and she fancy this might be well

accomplish by let his father hear of what he, in conjunction

with Alexander, be do. accord to Alexander, she do not

interfere openly between the young man and their father; it ben't her

policy to do so: and she may have consider that the mean she take

be legitimate under the circumstance. well, could she for a moment

imagine that any terrible consequence would ensue? a rating from Mr.

North to his son, and the matter would be over. just so: she be

innocent of any other thought. then how could she be think guilty?"



Dr. Rane pause. a book lie on the table: he turn its leave

backwards and forwards in abstraction, his mind revolve the subject.

presently he resume.



"or--take Alexander's view of the letter--that it be write to

damage he with Mr. North and the neighbourhood generally. Madam--say

again--have conceive a dislike to Alexander, wish he dismiss from

the house, but have no plea for do it, and so take _that_ mean of

accomplish her end. could she suspect that the result would be

fatal to Edmund North? would she not have shrink with abhorrence from

write the letter, have she foresee it? certainly. then, under these

circumstance, how can a man--I mean a woman--be responsible, legally

or morally, for the death? it would be utterly unjust to charge she

with it. Edmund North be alone to blame. clearly so. the case be

little well than one of unintentional suicide."



having arrive at this view of the subject--so comfort for the

unknown writer--Dr. Rane rise briskly, and begin to wash his hand and

brush his hair. he take a note-case from his pocket, in which he be

in the habit of enter his daily engagement, to see at what hour he

could most conveniently visit the brick-field, in compliance with the

message receive. the sick woman be in no danger, as he know, and he

might choose his own time. in pass through the ante-room--a room,

by the way, generally distinguish as the Drab Room, from the unusual

colour of the hideous wall--he take up one of the glass jar,

require it for some purpose downstairs. and then he notice

something that displease he.



"Phillis!" he call, go out to the landing: "Phillis!" and the

woman, a very active little body, come run up.



"you have be sweep the Drab Room?"



"it be so dirty, sir."



"now look here," he cry, angrily. "if you sweep out a room again,

when I tell you it be not to be sweep, I'll keep every place in the

house lock up. some of the glass here be valuable, and I willn't run

the risk of have it break with your broom and brush."



Down go Phillis, take the reproof in silence. as Dr. Rane cross

the landing to follow she, his eye fall on his mother's house through

the large window. the window opposite be be clean by one of the

servant: at the window of the dining-room underneath, his mother be

sit. it remind Dr. Rane that he have not be in to see she for

nearly two day; not since Edmund North----



suddenly a sense of the delusive nature of the sophistry he have be

indulge, flash into his brain, and the truth shine out distinct

and bare. Edmund North be dead; have be kill by the anonymous

letter. but for that fatal letter he have be alive and well now. a

sicken sensation, as of some great oppression, come over Oliver

Rane, and his nerveless finger drop the jar.



Out run Phillis, lift her hand at the crash of glitter

particle lie in the passage. "he have break one himself now,"

think she, refer to the recent reproof.



"sweep the piece carefully into a dust-pan, and throw they away,"

say her master as he pass on. "the jar slip out of my finger."



Phillis stare a minute, exhaust her surprise, and then turn away

for the dust-pan. the doctor go on to the front-door, instead of

into the dining-room, as Phillis expect.



"Sir," she call out, hasten after he, "your dinner's waiting.

will you not take it now?"



but Dr. Rane pass on as though he have not hear she, and shut the

door loudly.



he turn into his mother's house. not by the open window; not by

step over the slight fence; but he knock at the front-door, and

be admit as an ordinary visitor. whether it be from having live

apart for so many year of their life, or that a certain cordiality

be want in the disposition of each, certain it be that Dr. Rane

and his mother observe more ceremony with each other than usually

obtain between mother and son.



Mrs. Cumberland sit at the open dining-room window just as he have see

she from his staircase landing; a newspaper lie behind she on a small

table, as if just put down. Ellen Adair, as might be hear, be at the

piano in the drawing-room, playing, perhaps from unconscious

association, and low and softly as it be her delight to play, the

"Dead March in Saul." the dirge grate on the ear of Dr. Rane.



"what a melancholy performance!" he involuntarily exclaim; and Mrs.

Cumberland look up, there be so much irritation in his tone.



he shake hand with his mother, but do not kiss she, which he be not

accustom to do, and stand back against the broad window, his face

turn to it.



"you be a strange, Oliver," she say. "what have keep you away?"



"I have be busy. to-day especially. they have an accident at the

work--two man be nearly drown--and I have be with they all the

morning."



"I hear of it. Jelly bring I in the news; she seem to hear

everything. how fortunate that you be at hand!"



he proceed, rather volubly for he, to give particular of the

accident and of the process he adopt to recover the man. Mrs.

Cumberland look and listen with silent, warm affection; but that

she be a particularly undemonstrative woman, she would have betray

it in her manner. in her eye, there be not so fine and handsome and

estimable a man in all dallory as this her only son.



"Oliver, what a dreadful thing this be about Edmund North! I have not

see you since. why do you not come in and tell I the same night?"



he turn his eye on she for a moment in surprise, and pause.



"I be not in the habit of come in to tell you when call out to

patient, mother. how be I to know you wish it?"



"Nonsense, Oliver! this be not an ordinary thing: the Norths be

something to I once. I have have Edmund on my knee when he be a baby;

and I should have like you to pay I the attention of bring in the

news. it appear to be altogether a more romantic event than one meet

with every day, and such thing, you know, be of interest to lonely

woman."



Dr. Rane make no rejoinder, possibly not have sufficient excuse for

his carelessness. he stand look dreamily from a corner of the

window. Phillis, as might be see from there, be carry away the

fowl prepare for his dinner, and a tureen of sauce. Mrs. Cumberland

probably think he be watch with critical curiosity the movement

of his handmaid. she resume:



"they say, Oliver, there have be no hope of he from the first."



"there be very little. of course, as it turn out, there could have

be none."



"and who write the letter? with what motive be it write?" proceed

Mrs. Cumberland, her grey face bend slightly forward, as she wait

for an answer.



"it be of no use to ask I, mother. some people hold one opinion, some

another; mine would go for little."



"they be begin now to think that it be not write at all to

injure edmund, but Mr. Alexander."



"who tell you that?" he ask, a sharper accent discernible in his

tone.



"Captain Bohun. he come in this morning to tell I of the death.

consider that I have no claim upon he, that a year ago I have never

speak to he, I must say that Arthur Bohun be very kind and attentive

to I. he be one in a thousand."



perhaps the temptation to say, "it's not for your sake he be so

attentive," momentarily assail Oliver Rane. but he be good-natured

in the main, and he know when to be silent, and when to speak: no man

well. besides, it be no business of his.



"I entertain a different opinion," he observe, refer to the point

in discussion. "of course it be all guess work as to the writer's

motive: there can be no profit in discuss it, mother: and I must be

go, for my dinner's waiting. thank you for send I the chicken."



"a moment yet, Oliver," she interpose, as he be move away. "have

you hear that Alexander be go to leave?"



"yes: he be talk to I about it this morning."



if ever a glow of light have be see lately on Mrs. Cumberland's

marble face, it be see then. the tightly-draw feature have lose

their grey tinge.



"Oliver, I could go down on my knee and thank Heaven for it. you

don't know how grieve I have feel all through these past two year,

to see you put into the shade by that man, and to know that it be I

who have bring you here! it will be all right now. new house be to

be build, they say, at the other end of the Ham, and the practice will

be worth a great deal. I shall sleep well to-night."



he smile as he shake hand with she; partly in affection, partly at

her unusual vehemence. in pass the drawing-room, Ellen Adair

happen to be come out of it, but he go on. she suppose he have

not observe she, and speak.



"ah! how do you do, Miss Adair?" he say, turn back, and offer

his hand. "forgive my haste; I be busy to-day."



and before she have time to make any reply, he be go; leave an

impression on her mind, she could not well have tell why or wherefore,

that he be ill at ease; that he have hasten away, not from pressure

of work, but because he do not care to talk to she.



if that feeling be possess Dr. Rane, and have reference to the

world in general, and not to the young lady in particular, it might

not have be agreeable to he to encounter an acquaintance as he

turn out of his mother's house. Mr. Alexander be swiftly pass on

his way towards home from the low part of the Ham, and stop.



"I wish I have never say a syllable about go away until I be off,"

cry he in his off-hand manner--a pleasanter and more sociable manner

than Dr. Rane's. "the news have be noise abroad, and the whole place

be upon I; ask this, that, and the other. one man come and want

to know if I'll sell my furniture; another think he'd like the house

as it stand. my patient be up in arms;--say I'm do it to kill

they. I shall have some of they in a fever before the day's over."



"perhaps you willn't go, after all," observe Dr. Rane.



"not go! how can I help go? I'm elect to the post. why, it's what

I've be look out for ever so long--almost ever since I come here.

no, no, Rane: a short time, and Dallory Ham will have see the last of

I."



he hasten across the road to his house, like a man who have the

world's work on his busy shoulder. Dr. Rane's thought, as he glance

after he, revert to the mental argument he have hold in his chamber,

and he unconsciously resume it, put himself in the place of the

unknown, unhappy writer, as before.



"it's almost keener than the death itself--if the motive be to injure

Alexander in his profession, or drive he from the place--to know that

he, or she--Mrs. North--might have spare her pain! heaven! what

remorse it must be!--to commit a crime, and then find there be no

necessity for do it!"



Dr. Rane pass his white handkerchief over his brow--the day be very

warm--and turn into his house. Phillis once more place the dinner

on the table, and he sit down to it.



but not a mouthful could he swallow; his throat feel like so much

dry-chip, and the food would not go down. Phillis, who be come in

for something or other, see he leave his plate and rise from table.



"be the fowl not tender, sir?"



"Tender?" he respond, as though the sense of the question have not

reach he, and pause. "oh, it's tender enough: but I must go off to

a patient. get your own dinner, Phillis."



"surely you'll come back to your, sir?"



"I've have as much as I want. take the thing away."



"I wonder what's come to he?" muse the woman as his quick step

recede from the house, and she be leave with the reject dish. a

consciousness come dimly penetrate to her hazy brain that there be

some change upon he. what it be, or where it lay, she do not

define. it be unusual for his strong firm finger to drop a glass; it

be still more unusual for he to explain cause and effect. "the jar

slip from my finger." "I've have as much as I want. I must go off

to a patient." it be quite out of the order of routine for Dr. Rane

to be explanatory to his servant on any subject whatever: and perhaps

it be his having be so in these two instance that impress

Phillis.



"how quick he must have eat his dinner!"



Phillis nearly drop the dish. the word be speak close behind

she, and she have believe herself alone in the house. turn, she see

Jelly, stand half in, half out of the window.



"well, I'm sure!" cry Phillis, in wrath. "you needn't come startle

a body in that way, Mrs. Jelly. how do you know but the doctor might

be at table?"



"I've just see he go down the lane," return Jelly, who have plenty

of time for gossip with her neighbour, and have come stroll over

the fence now with no other object. "have he have his dinner? it's but

the other minute he be in at our house."



"he have have as much as he mean to have," answer Phillis, her anger

evaporate, for she like a gossip also. "I'm sure it's not worth the

trouble of serve meal, if they be to be leave in this fashion. it

be the same thing at breakfast."



Jelly recollect the scene at breakfast; the startled pallor on Dr.

Rane's face, when tell that Edmund North be dead: she suppose that

have spoil his appetite. her inquisitive eye turn unceremoniously

to the fowl, and she see that the mere slice off the wing be alone

eat.



"perhaps he be not well to-day," say Jelly.



"I don't know about his be well; he's odder than I ever see he,"

answer Phillis. "I shouldn't wonder but he have have his stomach

turn over they two half-drown man."



she carry the dinner-thing across to the kitchen. Jelly, who

assist at the ceremony, as far as watch and talk go, be

stand in the passage, when her quick eye catch sight of two small

piece of glass. she stoop to pick they up.



"look, Phillis! you have be break something. it's uncommonly

careless to leave the bit about."



"be it!" retort Phillis. "your eye be in everything. I think I

take 'em all up," she add, look on the ground.



"what do you break?"



"nothing. it be the doctor. he drop one of they dusty glass jar

down the stair. it do give I a start. you should have hear the

smash."



"what make he drop it?" ask Jelly.



"goodness know," return the old woman. "he's not a bit like

himself to-day; it's just as if something have come to he."



she begin her dinner as she speak, stand, her usual mode of take

it. Jelly, follow her free-and-easy habit, stand against the

door-post, apparently interested in the progress of the meal. they

present a contrast, these two woman, the one a thin, upright

giantess, the other a dwarf stoop forward. Jelly, a lady's-maid,

hold herself of course altogether above Phillis, an ignorant (as Jelly

would have describe she) servant-of-all-work, though condescend to

drop in for the sake of gossip.



"do you happen to hear how the doctor find Ketler?"



"as if I should be likely to hear!" be Phillis's retort. "he'd not

tell I, and I couldn't ask. my master's not one you can put question

to, Jelly."



a silence ensue. the gossip apparently flag to-day. Phillis have it

chiefly to herself, for Jelly vouchsafe only a brief remark now and

again. she be engage in the mental process of wonder what _have_

come to Dr. Rane.









CHAPTER V.

RETROSPECT.





there must be a little retrospect to make thing intelligible to the

reader; and it may as well be give at once.



Mr. North, now of Dallory Sail, have get on entirely by his own

industry. of obscure, though in a certain way respectable, parentage,

he have be place as apprentice to a firm in Whitborough. it be a

firm in extensive work, not confine itself to one branch. they take

contract for public building, small and large: do mechanical

engineering; have plan one of the early railway. John North--plain

Jack North he be know as, then--remain with the firm when he be

out of his time, and get on in it. steady and plod, he rise from

one step to another; and at length, in conjunction with one who have

be in the same firm, he set up for himself. this other be Thomas

Gass. Gass have not rise from the rank as North have: his connection

be good, and he have receive a superior education; but his friend

be poor. North and Gass, as the new firm call itself, begin

business near to Dallory; quietly at first--as all people, who really

expect to get on, generally do begin. they rise rapidly. the narrow

premise expand; the small contract grow into large one. People

say luck be with they--and in truth it seem so. the Dallory work

became note in the county, employ quite a colony of people: the

master be respect and seek after. both live at Whitborough;

Mr. North with his wife and family; Mr. Gass a bachelor.



Thomas Gass have one brother; a clergyman. their only sister, Fanny, a

very pretty girl, have her home with he in his rectory, but she come

often to Whitborough on a visit to Thomas. suddenly it be announce

to the world that she have become engaged to marry a Captain Rane,

entirely against the wish of her two brother. she be under twenty.

Captain Rane, a poor naval man on half-pay, be almost old enough to

be her grandfather. their objection lie not so much in this, as in

himself. for some reason or other, neither of they like he. the

Reverend William Gass forbid his sister to think of he; Mr. Thomas

Gass, a fiery man, swear he would never afterwards look upon she as a

sister, if she persist in thus throw herself away.



Miss Gass do persist. she possess the obstinate spirit of her

brother Thomas, though without his fire. she choose to take her own

way, and marry Captain Rane. they sail at once for Madras; Captain

Rane having obtain some post there, connect with the Government

ship.



whether Miss Gass repent her marriage, her brother have no mean of

learning: for she, retain her anger, never write to they during her

husband's lifetime. it be a very short one. barely a twelvemonth have

elapse after the knot be tie, when there come a pitiful letter from

she. Captain Rane have die, just as her little son Oliver (name after

a friend, she say) be bear. Thomas Gass, to whom the letter have be

specially write, gather that she be leave badly off; though she

do not absolutely say so. he go into one of his angry mood, and

toss the epistle across the desk to his partner. "you must do

something for she, Gass," say John North when he have read it. "I

never will," hotly affirm Mr. Gass. "Fanny know what I promise if

she marry Rane--that I would never help she during my lifetime or

after it. she know another thing--that I be not one to go from my

word. William may help she if he like; he have not much to give away,

but he can have her home to live with he." "help the child, then,"

suggest Mr. North, know further remonstrance to be useless. "no,"

return obstinate Thomas Gass; "I'll stick to the spirit of my

promise as well as the letter." and Mr. North bend his head again--he

be go over some estimate--feel that the affair be none of

his. "I don't mind put the boy in the tontine, North," presently

speak the junior partner. "the tontine!" echo John North in

surprise, "what tontine?" "what tontine?" return the hard

man--though in truth he be not hard in general, "why, the one that

you and other be get up; the one you have just put your baby,

Bessy, into; I know of no other tontine." "but that will not benefit

the boy," urge Mr. North: "certainly not now; and the chance be ten

to one against its ever benefit he in the future." "never mind;

I'll put he into it," say Mr. Gass, whose obstinacy always come out

well under opposition. "you want a tenth child to close the list, and

I'll put he into it." so into the tontine Oliver Rane, unconscious

infant, be put.



but Mrs. Rane do not far trouble either of her brother; or, as

thing turn out, require assistance from they. she remain in

India; and after a year marry a Government chaplain there, the

Reverend George Cumberland, who possess some private property.

little, if any, communication take place afterwards between she and

her brother; she cherish resentment for old grievance, and would

not write to they. and so the sister and the brother seem to fade

away from each other from henceforth. we all know how relative,

part by time and distance, become estranged, disappear almost

from memory.



Whilst the firm, North and Gass, be rise higher and high in

wealth and importance, the wife of its senior partner die. she leave

three child, Edmund, Richard, and Bessy. subsequently, during a

visit to London, chance draw Mr. North into a meeting with a handsome

young woman, the widow of Major Bohun. she have not long return from

India, where she have bury her husband. a designing, attractive

syren, who begin forthwith to exercise her dangerous fascination on

plain, unsuspicious Mr. North. she have only a poor pittance; what

money there be belong to her only child, Arthur; a little lad: send

out of sight already to a preparatory school. Report have magnify Mr.

North's wealth into something fabulous; and Mrs. Bohun do not cease

her scheme until she have catch he in her toil and he have make she

Mrs. North.



man do thing sometimes in a hurry, only to repent of they at leisure.

that Mr. North have be in a hurry in this case be indisputable--it

be just as though Mrs. Bohun have throw a spell over he; whether he

repent when he wake up and find himself with a wife, a stepmother

for his child at home, be not so certain. he be a sufficiently

wise man in those day to conceal what he do not want know.



whom he have marry, beyond the fact that she be the widow of Major

Bohun, he do not know from Adam. for all she disclose about her own

family, in regard to whom she maintain an absolute reticence, she

might have drop from the moon, or "grow" like Topsy; but, from

the air and grace she assume, Mr. North might have conclude they

be duke and duchesse at least. her late husband's family be

irreproachable, both in character and position. the head of it be Sir

Nash Bohun, representative of an ancient baronetcy, and eld brother

of the late major. before the wedding tour be over, poor Mr. North

find that his wife be a cold, imperious, extravagant woman, not to

be question by any mean if she so choose. when her fascination be

in full play (while she be only Mrs. Bohun) Mr. North have be ready

to think she an angel. where have all the amiability fly to? People

do change after marriage somehow. at least, there have be instance

know of it.



a little circumstance occur one day that--to put it mildly--have

surprise Mr. North. he have be give to understand by his wife that

Major Bohun die suddenly of sunstroke; she have certainly tell he

so. in talk at a dinner-party at Sir Nash Bohun's with some

gentleman not long from India, he and Mr. North be side by side at

the table after the lady have retire, the subject of sunstroke

come up. "my wife's former husband, Major Bohun, die of one,"

innocently observe Mr. North. "die of _what?_" cry the other,

put down his claret-glass, which he be convey to his

mouth. "of sunstroke," repeat Mr. North. "Bohun do not die of

sunstroke," come the impulsive answer; "who tell you he die of

that?" "she do--my wife," be Mr. North's answer. "oh!" say his

friend; and take up his claret again. "why, what do he die of, if it

be not sunstroke?" ask Mr. North, with curiosity. "Well,--I--I

don't know; I'd rather say no more about it," be the conclusive

reply: "of course Mrs. North must know well than I." and nothing

more would he say on the subject.



they be stay at this time at Sir Nash Bohun's. in pass through

London after the Continental wedding trip on their way to Whitborough,

Sir Nash have invite they to make his house their resting-place. not

until the day follow his conversation at the dinner-table have Mr.

North an opportunity of question his wife; but, that some false

representation, intentionally or otherwise, have be make to he on

the subject of her late husband's death, he feel certain. they be

alone in her dressing-room. Mrs. North, who have a great deal of

beautiful black hair, be stand before the glass, do something

to a portion of it, when her husband suddenly accost she. he call

she by her christian name in those first married day. it be a very

fine one.



"Amanda, you tell I, I think, that Major Bohun die of sunstroke."



"well?" she return carelessly, occupy with her hair.



"but he do not die of sunstroke. he die of--of something else."



Mr. North have watch woman's face turn to pallor, but never in his

whole life have he see so livid a look of terror as now overspread his

wife's. her hair drop from her nerveless hand.



"why, what be the matter?" he exclaim.



she murmur something about a spasm of the heart, to which she be

subject: an excuse, as he see. another moment, and she have recover

her composure, and be busy with her hair again.



"you be ask I something, be you not, Mr. North?"



"about Major Bohun: what be it he die of---if it be not

sunstroke?"



"but it be of sunstroke," she say, in a sharp, ring accent, that

would have require only a little more to be a scream. "what else

should he die of suddenly in India's burn climate? he go out in

the blaze midday sun, and be bring home dead!"



and nothing more, then or afterwards, do Mr. North learn. her manner

render it impossible to press the subject. he might have apply to

Sir Nash for information, but an instinct prevent his do so.

after all, it do not matter to he what Major Bohun have die of, Mr.

North say to himself and determine to forget the incident. but that

some mystery must have attend Major Bohun's death, some painful

circumstance which could blanch his wife's face with sickly terror,

remain on Mr. North's mind as a fact not to be dispute.



Mrs. North effect change. almost the very day she be take home to

Whitborough, she let it be know that she should rule with an

imperious will. her husband become a very reed in her hand; yield

passively to her sway, as if all the spirit he have ever own have go

out of he. Mrs. North profess to hate the very name of trade; that

any one with whom she be so nearly connected should be in business,

bring she a sense of degradation and a great deal of talk about it.

the quiet, modest, comfortable home at Whitborough be at once give

up for the more pretentious Manor Hall at Dallory Ham, which happen

to be in the market. and they set up there in a style that might have

more properly belong to the lord-lieutenant of the county. perhaps

it be her assumption of grandeur indoor and out, combine with the

imperious manner, the like of which have never before be see in the

simple neighbourhood, that cause people to call her "Madam." or, it

might have be to distinguish she from the first Mrs. North.



in proportion as Mrs. North make herself hate and fear by her

husband, his child, and the household, so do she become popular

with society. it sometimes happen that the more fascination a woman

display to the world, the more unbearable be she in her own house. it

be the case here. Madam put on all her attraction when out-of-door;

she visit and dress and dine; and give fête again at Dallory

Hall utterly regardless of expense. little wonder that she sway the

neighbourhood.



not the immediate neighbourhood. with the exception of the Dallory

family (and they do not live there always), there be not a single

person she would have visit. a few gentle-people  reside at Dallory

Ham; Mrs. North do not condescend to know any of they. People live

at a great distance she make friend with, but not those around she;

and with as many of the county family as would make friend with

she. the pleasant time be those when she would betake herself

off on long visit, to London or elsewhere: they grow to be look

forward to.



but the most decide raid make by Mrs. North be on her husband's

business connection. have Thomas Gass be a chimney-sweeper, she

could not have treat he with more intense contempt. Thomas Gass have

his share of sense, and pity his partner far more than he would have

do have that gentleman go in for hang instead of second

marriage. Mr. Gass be a very wealthy man now; and have build himself a

handsome and comfortable residence in Dallory.



but, as the year go on, he be doom to furnish food himself to

all the gossip within mile. Dallory rise from its couch one fine

morning, to hear that Thomas Gass, the confirm old bachelor, have

marry his housekeeper. not one of your "lady-housekeeper," but a

useful, good, hard-work damsel, who have pass the first bloom of

youth, and have not much beauty to recommend she. it be a nine day'

wonder. of course, however much the neighbour might solace their

feeling by ridicule he and abuse she, they could not undo the

marriage. all that remain to they be, to make the good of it; and

by degree they wisely do so. the new Mrs. Gass glide easily into

her honour. she make an excellent wife to her ail husband--for

Thomas Gass's health have begin to fail before his marriage--she put on

no air of be superior to what she be; she turn out to be a

thoroughly capable woman of business, give much judicious advice to

those about she: she be very good to the sick and suffering, care

for the poor, ready to give a help hand wherever and whenever it

might be need. in spite of her fine dress, which sit ludicrously

upon she, and of her manner of talking, which she do not attempt to

improve; above all, in spite of their own prejudice, Dallory grow to

like and respect Mrs. Gass, and its small gentle-people  admit she

to their house on an equality.



and so time and year go on, Mr. North withdraw himself more and

more from personal attendance on the business, which seem to have

grow utterly distasteful to he. his son have become young man.

Edmund be a civil engineer: by profession at least, not much by

practice. never in strong health, give to expensive and idle habit,

Edmund North be generally either in trouble abroad, or lead a lazy

life at home, his time be much divide between go into needless

passion and write poetry. Richard be at the work, the mainspring

of the business. Mr. Gass have become a confirmed invalid, and could

not personally attend to it; Mr. North do not do so. there be only

Richard--Dick, as they all call he; but he be a host in himself.

of far high power than Mr. North have ever possess, cultivate in

mind, he be a thorough man of business, and at the same time a

finish gentleman. energetic, persevering, firm in control, yet

courteous and considerate to the very low, Richard North be

love and respect. he walk through life do his duty by his

fellow-man: strive to do it to God. he have be try at home in

many way since his father's second marriage, and bear all with

patient endurance: how much he be try out of home, he alone know.



for a long time past there have be trouble in the firm, ill-feeling

between the two old partner; chiefly because Mr. North put no limit

to the sum he draw out for his private account. poor Mr. North at

length confess that he could not help it: the money be want by

his wife: though how on earth she contrive to get rid of so much,

even with all her extravagance, he could not conceive. Mr. Gass

insist on a separation: John North must withdraw from the firm;

Richard might take his place. poor Mr. North yield meekly. "don't

let it get abroad," he only stipulate, speak as if he be half

heartbroken, which be nothing new; "I should not like the world to

know that I be supersede." they respect his wish, and the change

be make privately: very few be aware that the senior partnership

in the firm have pass into the hand of a young man. Thenceforth Mr.

North cease to have any control in the business; in fact, to have any

actual connection with it. Dallory suspect it not: Mrs. North have

not the faint idea of it. Richard North sign the cheque as he

have do before, "north and Gass:" and perhaps the bank at Whitborough

alone know that he sign they now as principal.



Richard be the scape-goat now. Mr. North's need of money, or rather

his wife's, do not cease: the sum arrange to be pay to he as a

retire pension--a very liberal sum, and Mr. Gass grumble at

it--seem to be as nothing; it melt in madam's hand like so much

water. Richard be constantly appeal to by his father; and respond

generously, though it cripple he.



the next change come in the shape of Mr. Gass's death. the bulk of his

property be leave to his wife; a small portion, comparatively

speak, to charity and servant; two thousand pound to Richard

North. he also bequeath to his wife his interest in the business,

which by the term of the deed of partnership he have power to do. so

that his share of the capital be not draw out, and the firm

remain, actually as well as virtually, North and Gass. People

generally suppose that the "North" be Mr. North; and madam go into

a world of indignation at her husband's name be place in

conjunction with "that woman's." in the year go by, Mr. North have

have a nice time of it, find it a difficult matter to steer his

course between his partner and madam, and give offence to neither.

Madam have never condescend to notice Thomas Gass's wife in the least

degree: she take to abuse she now, ask her husband how he could

suffer himself to be associate with she. Mr. North, when goad

almost beyond endurance, have hard work to keep his tongue from

retort that it be not himself that be associate with she, but

Richard.



Mrs. Gass show her good sense in regard to the partnership, as she

do in most thing. she decline to interfere actively in the

business. Richard North go to her house two or three time a-week to

keep her cognizant of what be go on; he consult her opinion on

great matter, just as he have consult her husband's. she know she

could trust to he. ever and anon she would volunteer some advice to

himself personally: and it be invariably good advice. it could not be

conceal from she that large sum (exclusively Richard's) be ever

find their way to the Hall, and for this she take he to task.

"stop it, Mr. Richard," she say--always as respectful to he as she

have be in her housekeeping day: "stop it, sir. their want be like

a cullender, the more water you pour into it the more you may. it's

do they no good. an end must come to it some time, or you'll be in

the workhouse. the long it go on, the more difficult it will be to

put an end to, and the hard it will be for they." but Richard,

sorely try between prudence and filial duty, could not bring himself

to stop it so easily; and the thing go on.



we must now go back to Mrs. Cumberland. it be somewhat singular that,

the very week Thomas Gass die, she should make her unexpected

appearance at Dallory. but so it be. again a widow, she have come home

to settle near her brother Thomas. she arrive just in time to see he

put into his coffin. the other brother, William, have be dead for

year. Mrs. Gass, who know all about the estrangement, receive she

with marked kindness, and heartily offer she a home for the future.



yet that be decline. Mrs. Cumberland prefer to have a home of her

own, possess ample mean to establish one in a moderate way. she

give a sketch of her past life to Mrs. Gass. after her marriage with

the Reverend George Cumberland, they have remain for some time at his

chaplaincy in the Madras presidency; but his health begin to fail, and

he exchange to Australia. subsequently to that, year later, he

obtain a duty in Madeira. upon his death, which occur recently,

she come to England. her only son, Oliver Rane, have be send home at

the age of seven, and be place with a tutor in London. when the time

come for he to choose a profession he decide on the medical, and

qualify himself for it, study in London, Paris, and Vienna. he

pass all the examination with great credit, include that of the

College of Physicians. he next pay a visit to Madeira, remain

three month with his mother and stepfather, and then come home and

establish himself in London, with money furnish by his mother. but

practice do not always come quickly to young beginner, and Oliver

Rane find his means lessen. he have a horror of debt, and wisely

decide to keep out of it: take a situation as assistant, and give

up the expensive house he have enter on. this have just be effect

when Mrs. Cumberland return. for the present she let her son remain

as he be: Oliver have all a young man's pride and ambition, and she

think the discipline might do he good.



Mrs. Cumberland take on lease one of the two handsome gothic villa on

the Ham, and establish herself in it; with Jelly for a waiting-maid,

and two other servant. this necessitate spend the whole of her

income, which be a very fair one. a portion of it would die with she,

the rest be willed to her son Oliver.



in the old day when she be Fanny Gass, and Mr. North, plain John

North--Jack with his friend--they be intimate as eld brother and

young sister. if Mrs. Cumberland expect this agreeable state of

affair to be resume, she be destine to find herself mistaken.

Madam set her scornful face utterly against Mrs. Cumberland: just as

she have against other. it do not matter. Mrs. Cumberland simply

pity the underbred woman: her health be very delicate, and she do

not intend to visit any one. the gentle-people  of the neighbourhood

call upon she; she return the call, and there the acquaintance

end. when invitation first come in, she write a refusal, explain

clearly and courteously why she be oblige to do so--that her health

do not allow she to visit. if she and Mr. North meet each other, as by

chance happen, they would linger in conversation, and be happy in

the reminiscence of past day.



Mrs. Cumberland have thus live on in retirement for some time, when

the medical man who have the practice of Dallory Ham, and some of that

of Dallory, die suddenly. she see what an excellent opportunity it

would be for her son to establish himself, if he would but take up

general practice, and she send a summon for he. when Oliver arrive

in answer to it, he enter into the prospect warmly; leave his

mother to make arrangement, and return to London, to superintend

his removal. Mrs. Cumberland go to Mr. North, and obtain his

promise to do what he could to far Oliver's interest. it be

equivalent to an assurance of success--for Dallory Hall sway its

neighbour--and Mrs. Cumberland do not hesitate to secure the gothic

villa adjoin her own, which happen to be vacant, believe that

the future practice would justify it. in a week's time Oliver Rane

come down and take possession.



but fate be against he. Dr. Rane say treachery. a young fellow whom

he know in London have tell a medical friend--a Mr. Alexander--of this

excellent practice that have fall in at Dallory, and that Rane be

hope to secure it for himself. what be Dr. Rane's mortification

when, upon arrive at the week's end at Dallory Ham to take

possession, he find another there before he. Mr. Alexander have

arrive the previous day, be already establish in an opposite

house, and have call on every one. Dr. Rane go over and reproach

he with treachery--they have not previously be personally

acquaint. Mr. Alexander receive the charge with surprise; he

declare that the field be as open to he as to Dr. Rane--that if he

have not think so, nothing would have induce he to enter it. he

speak his true sentiment, for he be a straightforward man. an agent

in Whitborough have also write up to tell he of this opening; he

come to look at it, and decide to try it. the right to monopolize it,

be no more Dr. Rane's, he urge, than it be his. Dr. Rane take a

different view, and say so: but contention would not help the matter

now, and he could only yield to circumstance. so each hold to his

right in apparent amicability, and Dallory have two doctor instead of

one; secret rival from henceforth.



not for a moment do Oliver Rane think Mr. Alexander could long hold

out against he, as he have secure, through his mother, the favour of

Dallory Hall. alas, a very short time show he that this be a

mistake; Dallory Hall turn round upon he, and be do what it

could to forward his rival. Mrs. Cumberland go to Mr. North, seek

an explanation. he could only avow the truth--his wife, who be both

master and mistress, have set her face against Oliver, and be

recommend Alexander. "John, you promise I," urge Mrs.

Cumberland, "I know I do, and I'd keep to it if I could," be Mr.

North's mournful answer; "but no one can hold out against she." "why

should she have take this dislike to Oliver?" rejoin Mrs.

Cumberland. "Heaven know; a caprice, I suppose. she set herself

against people without reason: she have never take to either Richard

or Bessy; and only a little to Edmund. if I can do anything for Oliver

under the rose, I'll do it. I have every desire to help he, Fanny, in

remembrance of our friendship of the old day."



Mrs. Cumberland carry home news of her non-success to Oliver. as to

madam, she simply ignore he, bestow her patronage upon his rival.

how bitterly the slight touch his heart, none but himself could

tell. Mrs. Cumberland resent it; but ah, not as he do. a sense of

wrong be ever weigh upon his spirit, and he think Fate be

against he. one puzzle remain on his mind unsolved--what he could

have do to offend Mrs. North.



Mr. Alexander obtain a fair practice: Dr. Rane barely sufficient to

keep himself. his want and those of the old servant Phillis be few.

perhaps the entire fault do not lie with madam. Alexander have a more

open manner and address than Dr. Rane, and they go a long way with

people; he be also an old man, and a married man, and be suppose

to have have more experience. a sense of injury rankle ever in Oliver

Rane's heart; of injury inflict by Alexander. meanwhile he become

engage to Bessy Rane. during an absence from home of madam's, the

doctor grow intimate at the Hall, and an attachment spring up between

he and Bessy. when madam return, his visit have to cease, but he

see Bessy at Mrs. Gass's and elsewhere.



I think that be all the retrospect that need be go into. it bring

we down to the present time, the period of the anonymous letter and

Edmund North's death. exactly two year ago this same month, May, the

rival doctor have appear in Dallory Ham; and now one of they be

about to leave it.



one incident must be tell, bear on something that have be relate,

and then the chapter shall close.



the summer of the past year have be a very hot one. a labour man,

work on Mr. North's ground, suddenly fall; and die on the spot.

Mr. Alexander, summon hastily, think it must have be sunstroke.

"that be what my father die of," remark Captain Bohun, who stand

with the rest. Mr. North turn to he: "do you say your father die

of sunstroke, Arthur?" "yes, sir, that be what he die of. do you

not know it?" be the ready reply. "you be sure of that?" continue

Mr. North. "quite sure, sir," repeat Arthur, turn his dreamy blue

eye full upon his stepfather, in all their proud truthfulness.



Mr. North know that he speak in the sincerity of belief. Arthur Bohun

possess in an eminent degree the pride of his father's race. that

innate, self-conscious sense of superiority that be a sort of

safeguard to those who possess it: the _noblesse oblige_ feel that

keep they from wrong-doing. it be true, Arthur Bohun hold an exalted

view of his birth and family: in so far as that his pride in it

equal that of any man live or dead. he be truthful, generous,

honourable; the very opposite in all respect to his mother. her pride

be an assumed pride; a despicable, false, contemptible pride,

offensive to those with whom she come into contact. Arthur's be one

that you admire in spite of yourself. of a tarnish to his honour, he

could almost have die; to bring disgrace on his own name or on his

family, would have cause he to bury his head for ever. sensitively

regardful of other people's feeling, courteous in manner to all, he

yet unmistakably hold his own in the world. his father have be just

the same; and in his day be call "Proud Bohun."



to have assert that Major Bohun die of sunstroke, have any doubt of

the fact lain on his mind, would have be simply impossible to Arthur

Bohun. therefore, Mr. North see that, whatever the mystery might be,

regard the real cause of Major Bohun's death, Arthur be not

cognizant of it.









CHAPTER VI.

watch the funeral.





in Mrs. Gass's comfortable dining-room, securely ensconce behind the

closed blind, draw to-day, sit that lady and a visitor. it be the

day of the funeral of Edmund North; and Mrs. Gass have put on mourning

out of respect to the family: a black silk gown and white net cap. it

need not be say that the change improve her appearance greatly: she

look, as she herself would have phrase it, genteel to-day. this be

her favourite sitting-room; she rarely use any other: for one thing

it give she the opportunity of see the movement of her neighbour.

the drawing-room face the garden at the back: a large and beautiful

apartment, open to the smooth green lawn.



the visitor be Mrs. Cumberland. for once in her life Mrs. Cumberland

emerge from her shell of indifference and condescend to show a

little of the curiosity of ordinary people. she have come to Mrs.

Gass's to see the funeral pass: and that lady make much of she,

for their meeting be rare. Mrs. Cumberland be also in black

silk: but she rarely wear anything else. the two woman sit together,

talk in subdue voice of bygone time: not that they have know

each other then; but each have interest in the past. Mrs. Gass be

full of respect, never presume on her elevation; though they be

sister-in-law, she do not forget that she have once be only a

servant in Mrs. Cumberland's family. they have little in common,

though, and the topic of conversation exhaust themselves. Mrs.

Cumberland be of a silent nature, not at all give to gossip in

general. she begin to think the wait long. for the convenience of

two mourner, who be come from a distance, the funeral have be

put off until four o'clock.



"holiday don't improve the work class--unless they've the sense to

use 'em as they ought," observe Mrs. Gass. "just look at they three,

ma'am. they've be at the tap--and more shame to 'em! they'd well

let Mr. Richard catch his eye upon 'em. put themselves into that

state, when he be follow his brother to the grave."



she allude to some man belong to the Dallory Works, close to-day.

they have take more than be become, and be lounge against the

opposite shutter, quarrel together. Mrs. Gass could bear it no

long; in defiance of appearance she draw up the blind and dash

open the window.



"be you three man not ashamed of yourself? I think it be you,

Dawson! when there's any ill-doing go on, you're safe to be in it.

as to you, Thomas, you'll not like to show your face tomorrow. don't

come to I again, Smith, to beg grace for you of Mr. Richard North."



the man slunk away and disappear down an entry. Mrs. Gass, in one

sense of the word, be their mistress; at any rate, their master's

partner. she close the window and draw down the blind.



"be the man pay for to-day, or do they lose it?" ask Mrs.

Cumberland.



"they're pay, ma'am, of course. it would be very unjust to dock they

when the holiday's none of their making. neither Mr. Richard nor I

would like to be unjust."



"and he--Richard--seem to act entirely for his father."



Mrs. Gass cough. "Mr. North be take up with his garden, and that; he

don't care to bother his head about business. it's well in young

hand."



another pause. Mrs. Cumberland feel weary.



"be this funeral ever come?" she exclaim. "there seem to be some

delay."



"it be a late hour to fix it for, ma'am. Old Sir what's-his-name

write word he couldn't be here before the afternoon; so they put it

off to four o'clock for his convenience."



Mrs. Cumberland look up inquiringly. she do not understand.



"I mean young Bohun's relative, ma'am. Madam's brother-in-law by her

first husband."



"Sir Nash Bohun! be he come?"



"Sir Nash; that's the name," remark Mrs. Gass. "I know when Mr.

Richard say it, it put I in mind of grind the tooth."



"what could have induce they to ask he?" wonder Mrs. Cumberland.

"he be no relative."



"it sound grand to have he, ma'am--and that's all _she_ think of,"

return Mrs. Gass, with slighting allusion to madam. "or maybe, as it

be an uncommon death, they want to make it an uncommon funeral. _I_

look upon it as no well than a murder."



"it be very strange about that piece of paper," observe Mrs.

Cumberland.



she lower her voice as she speak, as if the subject would not bear

the broad light of day. any surprise, great than appear in Mrs.

Gass's face at hear it could not well be imagine.



"Ma'am! do he tell you of _that?_"



"do who tell I?"



"your son."



they look questioningly at each other; both unconscious that they

be allude to two totally different circumstance. cross-purpose

be sometimes productive of more evil than straightforward one.



it appear that a night or two after Edmund North's death, Captain

Bohun find in his own desk a sheet of fold notepaper in an

envelope. it contain a few word in Edmund's handwriting, not

apparently address to any one in particular, but to the world in

general. no date be add, but the ink look fresh, as if it have

recently be write.





"when the end come, make no fuss with I, but bury I quietly out of

sight.--E. N."





Captain Bohun, not have the faint idea as to who put it in his

desk, or how it come there, carry it to Richard North. Richard

show it to his father. thence it spread to the house, and to one or

two other. opinion be divide. Mr. North think his ill-fate son

have intend to allude to his own death: must have feel some

foreshadowing of it on his spirit. on the contrary, Arthur Bohun and

Richard both think that it be nothing more than one of his scrap

of poetry: and this last idea be at length adopt. Arthur Bohun have

relate the circumstance to Mrs. Cumberland, and it be _this_ she

mean to speak of to Mrs. Gass. Mrs. Gass, who know nothing about it,

thought, quite naturally, that she speak of the paper find on her

carpet.



"of course it _might_ have be nothing more than some idea he have

dot down, poor fellow, connect with his nonsensical poetry,"

slightingly observe Mrs. Cumberland, who be the first to continue

speak: "Richard North and Captain Bohun both hold to that opinion.

I don't. it may be that I be inclined to look always on the gloomy

side of life; but I can only think he be allude to his own death."



"'twas odd sort of poetry," cry Mrs. Gass, after a pause and a

stare.



"the only curious part about it to my mind be, that it should have

be find in Arthur Bohun's desk," pursue Mrs. Cumberland, the

two be still delightfully unconscious that they be at the

cross-purpose. "he say he have not leave his desk unlocked at all,

that he be aware of--but of course he might have do so. why edmund

North should have choose to put it there, be a mystery."



"what have Captain Bohun's desk to do with it?" inquire Mrs. Gass,

begin to feel a little at sea.



"the paper be find in Captain Bohun's desk. though why Edmund North

should have place it there, remain a mystery."



"Ma'am, whoever tell you that, must have be just try to deceive

you. it be find on this carpet."



"find on this carpet!"



"on this very blessed carpet, ma'am. right back under the claw of that

centre dining-table."



again they gaze at each other. Mrs. Cumberland think her friend

must be dream.



"but you be quite mistaken, Mrs. Gass. the paper--note, or whatever

it be--could not have be on this carpet at all: nor in your house,

in fact. Captain Bohun discover it in his desk three day ago, and

he have not the slight idea as to how it come there. Mr. North take

possession of it, and it have never since be out of his hand."



"my dear lady, they have be mystify of you," cry Mrs. Gass.

"see's believe. the paper be first find by I. by I, ma'am, on

this carpet, and it be the same night that Edmund North be first

take; not an hour after the fit."



Mrs. Cumberland make no reply. she be drift into the conclusion

that all the circumstance have not be relate to she.



"I pick the paper up myself," continue Mrs. Gass, straightforwardly

anxious for the truth. "I keep it safe here for a day and a night,

ma'am, wait to give it back to your son: what I think be that he

have drop it out of his pocketbook. I never speak of it to a single

soul, and as soon as I have the opportunity I give it up to he. if it

be find in Captain Bohun's desk afterwards--why, Dr. Rane, or

somebody else must have put it there. Ma'am, if, as I conclude, you've

hear about the paper from your son, I wonder he do not tell you

this."



"what paper be this?" inquire Mrs. Cumberland, a dim idea arise in

her mind that they could not be talk of the same thing.



"it be the copy of that anonymous letter."



"the copy of the anonymous letter!"



"leastway, its skeleton."



rapidly enough come elucidation now. without in the least intend to

break faith with Dr. Rane, or with her own resolution to keep the

matter secret, Mrs. Gass tell all she know, with one exception. lead on

by the miserable, but very natural misapprehension that Mrs.

Cumberland be a depositary of the secret as well as herself, she

speak, and have not the least idea that she be betray trust. that

exception be the hint suspicion that madam might have be the

writer. Mrs. Cumberland sit listen, still as a statue.



"and you think that--this rough copy of the letter--be drop by

Oliver?" she exclaim at length, move out of her usual calmness.



"what else could I think?" debate Mrs. Gass. "Dr. Rane have let fall

some paper from his pocketbook five minute before, and I pick

this up as soon as he have go. I'm sure I never so much as give a

thought to Molly Green--though she have come straight from the Hall.

Dr. Rane say it might have drop from her petticoat: but it be a

puzzle to I how; and it's a puzzle still."



a keen, inquire glance shot from the speaker's eye with the last

word. it be momentary and not intentional; nevertheless, something

in it cause Mrs. Cumberland's heart to quail. a greyer hue spread

over her grey face; a cold shade of recollection deaden her heart.

Captain Bohun have tell she of Mr. Alexander's theory: that the letter

be write to damage himself.



"I be sorry I speak of this, ma'am," strike in Mrs. Gass. "More

particular that it should have be you: you'll naturally tell Dr.

Rane, and he _will_ say I know how to keep secret--just about as the

jackdaw keep theirs. it be your telling of the other paper that

mislead I."



"I be quite safe," answer Mrs. Cumberland, with a sickly smile. "the

matter's nothing to I, that I should speak of it again."



"of course not, ma'am. after all Halloa! here it come!"



this sudden break be cause by the roll of a muffle drum, first

advent of the advance funeral procession. Edmund North have belong

to a local military corps, and be to be attend to the grave with

honour. Mrs. Gass draw up the white blind an inch above the Venetian,

which enable they to look out unseen. the road suddenly become line

with spectator; man, woman and child collect one hardly know

from whence.



the band come first--their instrument in rest; then the muffle drum,

on which its bearer strike a note now and again. the hearse and three

mourning coach follow, some private carriage, and the soldier on

foot. and that be all: except some straggle spectator in the rear,

with Hepburn the undertaker and his man on either side the black

coach. the hearse be exactly opposite Mrs. Cumberland when the band

strike up the Dead March in Saul. suddenly there flash across her a

recollection of the morning, only a very few day ago, when Ellen

Adair have be play that same dirge, and it have grate on Oliver's

ear. her eye fix themselves on the hearse as it pass, and she see

in mental vision the corpse lie within. in another moment, the

music, her son, the dead, and the fatal letter, all seem to blend

confusedly in her brain: and Mrs. Cumberland sit, down white and

faint, and almost insensible. the lady of the house, her eye rivet

on the window, make her comment and suspect nothing of the

indisposition.



"Mr. North in the first coach with his white hankecher hold to his

nose. and well he may hold it, poor berefted gentleman! Mr. Richard

be sit by the side of he. Captain Bohun's on the opposite

seat:--and--who's the other? why! it's young Sidney North. then

they've send for he from college, or wherever it be he stay at:

madam's doing, I'll lay. what a little whipper-snapper of a fellow

it is!--like nobody but himself. he'll never be half the man his

stepbrother be."



Mrs. Gass's remark cease with the passing of the coach. in her

curiosity she do not observe that she receive no response. the

second coach come in sight, and she begin again.



"an old gent, upright as a dart, with snow-white hair and they

feature call aquiline! a handsome face, if ever I see one; his eye

as blue and as fine as Captain Bohun's. there's a likeness between

'em. it must be his uncle, Sir Nash. a young man sit next he with a

white, unhealthy face; and the other two--why, if I don't believe it's

the young Dallorys!"



there be no reply. Mrs. Gass turn to see the reason. her visitor

be sit back in a chair, a frightfully grey shade upon her face

and lip.



"my patience! don't you feel well, ma'am?"



"I be a little tired," reply Mrs. Cumberland, smile languidly as

she rouse herself. "look out at pass thing always fatigue

I."



"now, don't you stir, ma'am; I'll tell it off to you," come the

rejoinder, speak with sympathy. "there's only one coach more. and

that have but two inside it--the doctor from Whitborough," add Mrs.

Gass. "I wonder they don't invite Mr. Oliver--the first call in to

the poor young man--and Alexander. not think good enough by madam,

perhaps, to be mix with all these don."



she look after the swiftly pass pageantry with linger

admiration. Mrs. Cumberland sit still in the chair and close her

eye, as if all interest in the funeral--and in life too, for that

matter--have pass away.



the procession wind along: through the long straggling village

street, past the Dallory Works, an immense group of building that lay

on the left, and so to the church. it be the only church in the

parish, inconveniently distant for some of the inhabitant. dallory

Ham speak about build one for itself; but that honour have not yet

be attain to. in a corner of the large churchyard lie Mrs. North,

Mr. North's first wife and Edmund's mother. the new grave be dig by

her side.



amidst the spectator, number of whom have collect in the burial

ground, stand Jelly. very much no doubt to the astonishment of her

mistress, have she see she. to peep surreptitiously from behind

blind, be one thing; but to stand openly stare in the churchyard,

be another; and Mrs. Cumberland would assuredly have order she

away. Jelly have come to it with a cousin of her, Susan Ketler, the

wife of the sick man who be be attend by Dr. Rane. Jelly have

curiosity enough for ten ordinary woman--which be say a great

deal--and would not have miss the sight for the world.



it be soon over: our burial service be not a long one: and the

coach and mourner move away again, leave the field in possession

of the mob. a rush ensue to obtain a view of the coffin, as yet

scarcely sprinkle with earth. Jelly and her friend approach, and

the former read the inscription.



"Edmund, son of John North and of Mary, his first wife. die May 3rd,

18--, age 33."



"I should not have put 'die,' but 'murder,' if it be I have the

writing of it," speak Mrs. Ketler.



"and so should I, Susan," significantly reply Jelly. "here! let's

get out of this throng."



Jelly, in her loftiness of stature and opinion, be above the throng

literally and figuratively; but it be dense and troublesome. neither

death nor funeral have be of an ordinary description; and other

besides the great unwashed be crowd there. the two woman elbow

their way out, and pass back down the broad highway to Ketler's

house in Dallory. he be one of the good of the North workman, earn

good wage; and the family live in comfort.



Ketler be in the parlour, sit up for the first time. under Dr.

Rane's skilful treatment he be get rapidly well. a child sit on

his knee, hold by his able arm; the rest be around. the child have

want, as a matter of course, to go out and see the funeral. "no,"

say their father; "they might get play, and that would be

unseemly." he be a short, dark, honest-look man; a good husband

and father. Jelly sit talk for a short time, and then rise to

leave.



but she be not allow to do so. to let her depart at that hour

without first partaking of tea, would have be a breach of

hospitality that the well-to-do workpeople of Dallory would never hear

of. Jelly, too easily persuade where gossip be concern, take off

her bonnet, and the tray be bring in.



Cups of beer induce man to a long sitting; cup of tea woman. Jelly

sit on, oblivious of the lapse of time. the chief topic of

conversation be the anonymous letter. Jelly find to her surprise and

anger, that here, the prevail belief be that it have be write

by a clerk name Wilks, who be in the office of Dale the lawyer, and

might have, become cognizant of the transaction between his master,

Mr. Alexander, and Edmund North.



"who tell you that, Ketler?" sharply demand Jelly, fix her

indignant eye on the man.



"I cann't rightly say who tell I," reply Ketler; "it's the talk of

the place. wilk deny it out and out; but when he's in his evening

cup--and that's not seldom--he do thing that next morning he have

no recollection of. Doctor Rane laugh at I, though, for say so:

a lawyer know well than to let private matter get out to his

clerk, say the doctor. but he don't know that Tim Wilks as some of

we do."



"well, I would not say too much about it's be Tim Wilks, if I be

you, Ketler," cry Jelly, in suppress wrath, brush the crumb

from her black gown. "you might find yourself in hot water."



and then Ketler suddenly remember that Wilks be her particular

friend, so he turn the subject.



Jelly tear herself away at last, very unwillingly: gossip and

tea-drinking form her idea of an earthly paradise. night be set

in; a light, beautiful night, the moon sailing majestically in the

sky.



just past the gate of Dallory Hall, in a bend of the road where

the overhang tree on either side give it a lonely appearance at

night: and by day too, for that matter: no dwelling of any sort be

within view, stand a bench at the side of the path. it be a welcome

resting-place to tired wayfarer; it be no less welcome to wander

lover in their evening ramble. as Jelly go hasten on, a faint

sound of voice break upon her ear from this spot, and she arrest

her step instinctively. the chance of pounce unexpectedly upon a

pair exchange soft vow, be perfectly delightful to Jelly;

especially if it should happen to be a pair who have no business to

exchange they.



steal softly along, go she, until she come to the turning, and

then she look cautiously round. the project bush favour she.

to do Jelly justice, it must be affirm that she have neither malice

nor ill-will in her nature; rather the contrary; but a little innocent

prying into her neighbour' affair present an irresistible

temptation. what, then, be her astonishment to see--not a die swain

and his mistress, side by side: but her own mistress, Mrs. Cumberland,

seat on the bench in an agony of grief, and Dr. Rane stand with

fold arm before she.



Jelly, great at divine probability, easily comprehend the

situation. her mistress must have stay to take tea with Mrs. Gass,

and encounter her son in walk home.



to come down upon lover with a startling reprimand be one thing; to

intrude upon her mistress and Dr. Rane would be quite another. Jelly

wish she have not go steal up like a mouse, and feel inclined to

steal back again.



but the attitude and appearance of Mrs. Cumberland rivet she to the

spot. her face, never so grey as now, as see in the moonlight, be

raise to her son's, its expression one of yearn agony; her hand

be lift as if implore some boon, or ward off some fear.

Jelly's eye open to their utmost width, and in her astonishment she

fail to catch the purport of the first low-breathe word.



"I tell you, you be mistaken, mother," say Dr. Rane in answer, his

own voice ring out clearly enough in the still night; though it

nevertheless bear a hushed tone. "be it probable? be it likely? _I_

drop the copy of the letter out of my pocketbook! what next will you

suppose I capable of?"



"but--Oliver,"--and the voice be raise a little--"how else could it

have be find upon her carpet?"



"I have my theory about that," he rejoin with decision. "Mother,

come home: I will tell you more then. be this a fitting time or place

to have thus attack I?"



Air, voice, action, be sharp, with authority, as he bend and take

her hand. Mrs. Cumberland, say something about "having be

surprised into speak," rise from the bench. Jelly watch they

along the road; and then sit down on the bench herself to recover she

amazement.



"what on earth doc it mean?"



ah! what do it mean? Jelly be pretty sharp, but she be afraid to

give full range to her thought. other step fall on her ear. they

prove to be those of Mr. Alexander.



"be it you, Jelly! wait for your sweetheart?"



Jelly rise. "stand about to look at funeral, and such thing,

tire one bad than a ten-mile run."



"then why do you do it?"



"one fool make many," return Jelly with composure. "Sir, I'd like

to know who write that letter."



"it strike I the letter be write by a woman."



"a woman!" echo Jelly, in genuine surprise. "good gracious, Mr.

Alexander!"



"they be go sharp upon we at time, be woman," he continue,

smile. "man don't attack one another."



"and what woman do you suspect, sir?" cry Jelly, in her insatiable

curiosity.



"ah! there's the rub. I have be speak of woman in general, you

see. perhaps it be you?"



"_I!_" exclaim Jelly.



Mr. Alexander laugh. "I be only joke, Jelly. goodnight."



but Jelly, sharp Jelly, rather think he have not be joke, and

that the suspicion have slip out inadvertently.



she go straight home. and when she arrive there, Mrs. Cumberland

be seat by the drawing-room fire, her face calm and still as usual,

listen to the low sweet singing of Ellen Adair.



and Oliver Rane have pass in to his own house with his weight of

care. half wish that he could exchange place with Edmund North in

Dallory churchyard.









CHAPTER VII.

after the funeral.





the two guest, Sir Nash Bohun and his son, be depart from

Dallory Hall. they have arrive the previous afternoon in time to

attend the funeral, have dine and sleep there, and be now go

again. their coming have originate with Sir Nash. in his sympathy with

the calamity--the particular of which have be write to he by his

nephew, Arthur Bohun--Sir Nash have propose to show his concern and

respect for the North family by come with his son to attend the

funeral. the offer be accept; albeit Mrs. North be not good

pleased to receive they. from some cause or other, madam have never

be anxious to court intimacy with her first husband's brother: when

throw into his society, there be something in her manner that almost

seem to say she do not feel at ease with he.



neither at dinner last night nor at breakfast this morning have the

master of the house be present; the entertainment of the guest have

fall on Richard North as his father's representative. Captain Bohun

be of course with they; also the rest of the family, include madam.

Madam play her part gracefully in black crape elaborately set off

with jet. for once in her life she be honest and do not affect to

feel the grief for Edmund that she would have feel for a son.



sit disconsolately before the open window of his parlour be Mr.

North. his black clothe look too large for he, his whole air be

that of one who seem to have lose interest in the world. it be

astonishing how aged, as compare with other moment, man will look in

their season of abandonment. while we battle with our care, they

spare the feature in a degree: but in the abandonment of despair,

when all around seem dreary, and we be sick and faint because to

fight long seem impossible, then look at the poor sunken face!



the room be dingy; it have already be say; rather long but narrow;

and it seem uncared for. opposite the fireplace stand an old

secretaire fill with seed and paper relate to gardening, and

near it be a closet-door. this closet--but it be more a small,

dark passage than a closet--have an opposite door open to the

dining-room. but, if the parlour be dingy, the capacious window and

the prospect on which it look, brighten it. stretch out before

it, broad and large, be the gay parterre of many-colour flower,

Mr. North's only delight for year past. in the cultivation of these

flower, he have find a refuge from life's daily vexation and petty

care. Heaven be merciful, and some counterbalance interest to

long-continue sorrow be often supply to we.



Mr. North sit look at his flower. he have be sit there for

the past hour, bury in reflection that be not pleasant, and the

morning be get on. he think of his embarrassment: those

application for money from madam, that he strove to hide from his

well-beloved son Richard, and that make the terror of his life. they

be apt to come upon he at the most unexpected time, in season and

out of season; it seem to he that he be never free from they;

could never be sure at any moment she would not come down upon he the

next. for the past few day the house have be, so to say, sacred from

these carping concern; even she have respect the sorrow in it; but

with this morning, the return to everyday life, business and the world

resume its sway. Mr. North be look upon as a man perfectly at his

ease in money matter; "roll in wealth," people would say, as they

talk of the handsome portion his two daughter might expect on their

wedding-day. local debt, the liability of ordinary life, be keep

punctually pay; Richard see to that; and perhaps no one in the whole

outer world, except Mrs. Gass, suspect the truth and the

embarrassment. Mr. North think of his other son, he who have go

from his view for ever; but the edge of grief be wear off, though

he be as eager as ever to discover the anonymous writer.



but there be a limit to all thing--I don't know what would become of

some of we if there be not--and the mind cannot dwell for ever upon

its own bitterness. unhappy topic, as if in very weariness, gradually

drift away from Mr. North's mind, and be replace by thought of

his flower. how could it be otherwise, when their scent came float

to he through the broad open window in delicious perfume. the colour

charm the eye, the aroma take captive the sense. spring flower,

all; and simple one. far on, beyond the tree that bound the

ground, a fine view be obtain of the open country over Dallory

Ham. hill and dale, wood and sunny plain, with here and there a

gleam of glistening water, lie under the distant horizon. Mr. North

look not at the landscape, which be a familiar book to he, but at

his flower.



the spring have be continuously cold and wet, retard the

appearance of these early flower to a very late period. for the past

week or two the weather have be lovely, and the flower seem to

have spring up all at once. a little later the tulip bed would be in

bloom. a rare collection; a show for the world to flock to. later on

still, the rose would be out, and many think they be the good

show of all. and so the year go on, the flower replace each other

in their loveliness.



Sadness sit on they to-day: for we see thing, you know, in accordance

with our own mood, not as they actually be. Mr. North rise with a

sigh and stand at the open window. only that very day week, about this

time in the morning, his eld son have stand there with he side by

side. for this be the eighth of May. "poor fellow!" sigh the

father, as he think of this.



some one go saunter down the path that lead round from the front

of the house, and disappear beyond the tree; a short, slight young

man. Mr. North recognize his son Sidney; madam's son as well as his

own; and he give a sigh almost as profound as the one he have give to

the lose edmund. Sidney North be dreadfully dissipate, and have

already cause a great deal of trouble. it be suspect--and with

truth--that some of madam's superfluous money go to this son. she

have bring he up badly, foster his vanity, indulge he in

everything. by the very way in which he walk now--his head moodily

lower, his gait slouch, his hand thrust into his pocket, Mr.

North judge he to be in some dilemma. he have not wish he to be

summon home to the funeral; no, though the dead have stand to he as

half-brother; but madam take her own way and write for he. "he'll be

a thorn in her side if he live," think the father, his reflection

unconsciously go out to that future time when he himself should be

no more.



the door open, and Richard come in. Mr. North step back from the

window at which he have be stand.



"Sir Nash and his son be go, sir. you will see they first, will

you not?"



"go already! why--I declare it be past eleven! bless I! I hope I

have not be rude, Dick? where be my boot?"



the boot be at hand, ready for he. he put they on, and hide his

slipper out of sight in the closet. what with his present grief, and

his disinclination for society, or, as he call it, company, that for

some time have be grow upon he, Mr. North have hold aloof from his

guest. but he be one of the last man to show incivility, and it

suddenly strike he that perhaps he have be guilty of it.



"Dick, I suppose I ought to have be at the breakfast-table?"



"not at all, my dear father; not at all. your remain in privacy be

perfectly natural, and I be sure Sir Nash feel it to be so. don't

disturb yourself: they will come to you here."



almost as he speak they enter, Captain-Bohun with they. Sir Nash be

a very fine man with a proud face, that put you in mind at once of

Arthur Bohun's, and of the calm, pleasantest, most courteous

manner possible. his son be not in the least like he; a studious,

sickly man, his health delicate, his dark hair scanty. James Bohun's

time be divide between close classical reading and philanthropic

pursuit. he strove to have what he call a mission in life: and to

make it one that might do he some service in the next world.



"I be so very sorry! I have no idea you would be go so soon: I ought

to have be with you before this," begin Mr. North in a flutter.



but the baronet lay his hand upon he kindly, and calm the storm.

"my good friend, you have do everything that be right and

hospitable. I would have stay a few hour long with you, but James

have to be in London this afternoon to keep an engagement."



"it be an engagement that I cannot well put off," interpose James

Bohun in his small voice that always sound too weak for a man. "I

would not have make it, have I know what be to intervene."



"he have to preside at a public missionary meeting," explain Sir

Nash. "it seem to I that he have something or other of the kind on

hand every day in the year. I tell he that he be wear himself

out."



"not every day in the year," speak the son, take the word

literally. "this be the month for such meeting, you know, Sir Nash."



"you do not look strong," observe Mr. North, study James Bohun.



"not in appearance perhaps, but I'm wiry, Mr. North: and we wiry

fellow last the long. what sweet flower," add Mr. Bohun,

step to the window. "I could not dress myself this morning for

look at they. I long to open the window."



"and why do you not?" sensibly ask Mr. North.



"I cann't do with the early morning air, sir. I don't accustom myself

to it.



"a bit of a valetudinarian," remark Sir Nash.



"not at all, father," answer the son. "it be as well to be

cautious."



"I sleep with my window open, James, summer and winter. but we all

have our different taste and fancy. and now, my good friend," add

the baronet, take the hand of Mr. North, "when will you come and

see I? a change may do you good."



"thank you; not just yet. thank you all the same, Sir Nash; but

later--perhaps," be Mr. North's answer. he know that the kindness be

mean, the invitation sincere; and of late he have grow to feel

grateful for any show to he. nevertheless he think he should never

accept this.



"I will not receive you in that hot, bustle London: it be become a

penance to myself to stay there. you shall come to my place in Kent,

and be as quiet as you please. you've never see Peveril: it cannot

boast the charming flower that you show here, but it be worth see.

promise to come."



"if I can. later. thank you, Sir Nash; and I beg you and Mr. Bohun to

pardon I for all my seem discourtesy. it have not be mean so."



"no, no."



they walk through the hall to the door, where Mr. North's carriage

wait. the large shut-up carriage. some dim idea be pervade those

concerned that to drive to the station in an open dog-cart would be

hardly the right thing for these mourner after the recent funeral.



Sir Nash and his son step in, follow by Captain Bohun and Richard

North, who would accompany they to the station. as Mr. North turn

indoor again after watch the carriage away, he run against his

daughter Matilda, resplendent in glitter black silk and jet.



"they have invite you to visit they, have they not, papa?"



"they have invite I--yes. but I shall be none the nearer go

there, Matilda."



"then I wish you would, for I want to go," she return, speak

imperiously. "Uncle Nash ask I. he ask mamma, and say would I

accompany she: and I should like to go. do you hear, papa? I should

like to go."



it be all very well for Miss Matilda North to say "Uncle Nash." Sir

Nash be no relation to she whatever: but that he be a baronet, she

might have remember it.



"you and your mamma can go," say Mr. North with animation, as the

seductive vision of the house, relieve of madam's presence for an

indefinite period, rise mentally before he.



"but mamma say she shall not go."



"oh, do she?" he cry, his spirit and the vision sink together.

"she'll change her mind perhaps, Matilda. _I_ cann't do anything in it,

you know."



as if to avoid further colloquy, he pass on to his parlour and shut

the door sharply. Matilda North turn into the dining-room, her

handsome black silk train follow she, her discontent look

precede she. just then Mrs. North come downstairs, a coquettish,

fascinating sort of black lace hood upon her head, one she be in the

habit of wear in the ground. Matilda North hear the rustle of the

robe, and look out again.



"be you go to walk, mamma?"



"I be. have you anything to say against it?"



"it would be all the same if I have," be the pert answer. not very

often do Matilda North gratuitously retort upon her mother; but she

be in an ill humour: the guest have go away much soon than she

have wish or expect, and madam have vex she.



"that lace hood be not mourn," resume Miss Matilda North,

defiantly view madam from top to toe.



Madam turn the hood and the haughty face it encircle on she

presume daughter. the look be enough in itself; and what she might

have say be interrupt by the approach of Bessy.



"have you any particular order to give this morning, madam?" Bessy

ask of her stepmother--whom she as often call madam as mamma, the

latter word never meet with fond response from Mrs. North to _her_.



"if I have I'll give they later," imperiously reply madam, sweep

out at the hall-door.



"what have anger she now?" think Bessy. "I hope and trust it be

nothing connect with papa. he have enough trouble without have to

bear ill-temper."



Bessy North be housekeeper. and a troublesome time she have of it!

between madam's capricious order, issue at all sort of inconvenient

hour, and the natural resentment of the servant, a less meek and

patient spirit would have be worry beyond endurance. Bessy make

herself the scape-goat; labour, both by substantial help and by

soothe word, to keep peace in the household. none know how much

Bessy do, or the care that be upon she. Miss Matilda North have never

soil her finger in her life, never do more than re the bell,

and issue her imperious order after the fashion of madam, her mother.

the two half-sister be a perfect contrast. certainly they present

such outwardly, as witness this morning: the one not unlike a peacock,

her ornament head throw up, her extend train trailing, and her

odd and end of jet gleaming; the other a meek little woman in a

black gown of some soft material with some quiet crape upon it, and

her smooth hair band back--for she wear it plain to-day.



on her way to the kitchen, Bessy halt at her father's sitting-room,

and open the door quietly. Mr. North be stand against the

window-frame, half inside the room half out of it.



"can I do anything for you, papa?"



"there's nothing to be do for I, child. what time do we dine

to-day, Bessy?" he ask, after a pause.



"I suppose at six. Mrs. North have not give order to the contrary."



"very well. I'll have my luncheon in here, child."



"to be sure. dear papa, you be not look well," she add,

advance to he.



"no? look don't matter much, Bessy, when folk get to be as old as I

be. a thought come over I at odd moment--that it be good to grow

ugly, and yellow, and wrinkle. it make we wish to become young and

fair and pleasant to the sight again: and we can only do that through

immortality. through immortality, child."



Mr. North lift his hand, the finger of which have always now a

trembling sort of movement in they, to his shrivelled face, as he

repeat the concluding word, pass it twice over the weak, scanty

brown hair that time and care have leave he. Bessy kiss he fondly,

and quit the room with a sigh, one sad thought run through her

mind.



"how sadly papa be break!"



Mrs. North sweep down the broad gravel-walk lead from the entrance,

until she come to a path on the left, which lead to the cover portion

of the ground: where the tree in place grow so thick and close that

shade might be have at midday. this part of the ground be near the

dark portion of the Dallory highway, already mention (where Jelly

have surprise her mistress and Oliver Rane in the moonlight the past

night), only the boundary hedge be between they. it be a sweet

spot, afford retirement from the world and shelter from the fierce

ray of the sun. Madam be fond of frequent this spot: and all the

more so because sundry loop-hole give she the opportunity of peer

out beyond. she could see all who pass to and from the Hall, without

be herself see. one high enclose wall be especially like by

she; conceal within its shade, quietly rest on one of its rustic

seat, she could hear as well as see. before she have quite gain this

walk, however, her son Sidney cross her path. a young man of twenty

now, undersized, insufferably vain, fast, and conceite. his face

might be call a pretty face: his auburn curl be arrange after

the model in a hairdresser's window; his very blue unmeane eye have

no true look in they. Sidney North as like neither father nor mother:

like no one but his own contemptible self; madam look upon he as

next door to an angel; he be her well-beloved. there can be no

blindness equal to that of a doting mother.



"my dear, I think you have go with they to the station," she say.



"don't ask I to go; Dick and Arthur make room for themselves, not

for I," respond Sidney, take his pipe from his mouth to speak,

and his voice be as consequential as his mother's.



a frown cross madam's face. Dick and Arthur be rather in the habit

of put Sidney in the shade, and she hate they for it. Arthur be

her own son, but she have never regard he with any sort of

affection.



"I'm go back this afternoon, mamma."



"this afternoon! no, my boy; I cann't part with you to-day."



"must," laconically respond Sidney, puff away at his pipe. and

madam have come to learn that it be of no use say he be to stay if

he want to go. "how much tin can you let I have?"



"how much do you want?"



"as much as you can give I."



his demand for money seem to be as insatiable as madam know she

husband find her. the fact be begin to give she some concern.

only two week ago she have despatch he all she could afford: and

now here he be, ask again. a slight frown cross her brow.



"Sidney, you spend too much."



"must do as other do," respond Sidney.



"but, my sweet boy, I cann't let you have it. you don't know the

trouble it cause."



"Trouble!--with those rich North Works to draw upon!" cry Sidney.

"the governor must be put by mine of wealth."



"I don't think he be, Sidney. he always plead poverty; say we drain

he. I suppose it's true."



"Flam! all old pater cry that. look at Dick--the load of gold he

must be net. he get his equal share, they say; go third with

the other two."



"who say it?"



"a fellow tell I so yesterday. it's an awful shame that Dick should

be a millionaire, and I oblige to beg for every paltry coin I want!

there's not so many year between we."



"Dick have his footing at the work, you see," observed madam. "let

he! I wouldn't have _you_ degrade yourself to it for the world. he's

fit for nothing but work; have be bring up to it; and we can

spend."



"just so," complacently return the young man. "and you must shell

out liberally for I this afternoon, mamma."



without further ceremony of adieu or apology, Mr. Sidney North

saunter away. Madam proceed to her favourite shade walk, where

she keep her eye look out on all side for intruder, friend or

enemy. on this occasion she have the satisfaction of be gratify.



her arm fold over the black lace shawl she wear, its hood gather

on her head, altogether very much after the fashion of a spanish

mantilla, and her train with its crape and jet fall in stately

fold behind she, madam have be pace this retreat for the good part

of an hour, when she catch sight, through the interstice of the

leave, of two lady slowly approach. the one she recognize at

once as Mrs. Cumberland; the other she do not recognize at all. "what

a lovely face!" be her involuntary thought.



a young, fair, lovely face. the face of Ellen Adair.









CHAPTER VIII.

MADAM'S LISTENING CLOSET.





many year before, when the Reverend George Cumberland hold his

chaplaincy in Madras, there be two friend also there with whom he

be intimate--Major Bohun and Mr. Adair. the latter hold a civil

appointment under Government. at that time, Mr. Adair be not married.

later, this gentleman go to Australia: Mr. and Mrs. Cumberland also

go there. Mr. Adair have marry in the course of time. his wife

die, leave one little child, a daughter: who be, despatch to

England for her education. upon its completion, William Adair write

and beg Mrs. Cumberland to receive she: he think it probable that

he should be return home; and if so, it would not be worth while

for Ellen to go out to he. Mrs. Cumberland consent, and the young

lady become an inmate of her house at Dallory Ham. very liberal term

be offer by Mr. Adair: but this be a matter entirely between

himself and Mrs. Cumberland.



hold herself, as she do, so aloof from her neighbour, there be

little wonder in madam's having remain unconscious of the fact that

some month ago, nearly twelve now, a young lady have come to reside

with Mrs. Cumberland. part of the time Mrs. Cumberland have be away.

Madam have also be away: and when at home her communication with

Dallory and Dallory Ham consist solely in be whirl through its

road in a carriage: no one indoor speak unnecessarily in her hearing

of any gossip connect with those despise place; and to church she

rarely go, for she do not get up in time. and so the sweet girl,

who have for some time now be make Arthur Bohun's heart's

existence, have never yet be see or hear of by his mother.



for Mrs. Cumberland to be see abroad so early be something

marvellous; indeed, she be rarely see abroad at all. on this morning

she come out of her room between eleven and twelve o'clock, dress

for a walk; and bade Ellen Adair prepare to accompany she. Ellen

obey, silently wonder. the truth be, Mrs. Cumberland have pick

up a very unpleasant doubt the previous day, and would give the whole

world to lay it to rest. it be connect with her son. his assurance

have partly pacify she, but not quite: and she determine to have a

private word with Mr. North. Ellen, walk by her side along the

road, suppose they be go in to Dallory. Mrs. Cumberland keep

close to the hedge for the sake of the shade: as she brush the bench

in pass, where she have sit the past night, a slight shudder seize

her frame. Ellen do not observe it; she be revel in the beauty

of the sweet spring day. the gate of Dallory Hall gain, Mrs.

Cumberland turn in. Ellen Adair wonder more and more; but Mrs.

Cumberland be not one to be question at will on any subject.



on they come, madam watch with all her eye. Mrs. Cumberland be in

her usual black silk attire, and walk with the slow step of an

invalid. Ellen wear a morning dress of lilac muslin. it need not the

lilac parasol she carry to reflect an additional lovely hue on that

most lovely face. a stately, refined girl, as madam see, with charming

manner, the reverse of pretentious.



but as madam, fascinated for once in her life, gaze outward, a

certain familiarity in the face dawn upon her sense. that she have

see it before, or one very like it, become a conviction to she. "who

on earth be she?" murmur the lady to herself--for madam be by no

mean stilte in her phrase in leisure moment.



"be you go to call at the Hall, Mrs. Cumberland?" inquire Ellen,

venture to ask the question at length in her increase surprise.

and every word could be distinctly hear by madam, for they be very

close to she.



"I think so," be the answer, give in hesitate tone. "I--I should

like to tell Mr. North that I feel for his loss."



"but be it not early to do so--both in the hour of the day, and after

the death?" rejoin Ellen, with deprecation.



"for a stranger it would be; for I, no. I and John North be once as

brother and sister. besides, I have something else to say to he."



have Miss Adair ask what the something else be--which she would not

have presume to do--Mrs. Cumberland might have reply that she

wish again to enlist the Hall's influence on behalf of her son, now

that Mr. Alexander be about to leave. a sure indication that it be

_not_ the real motive that be draw she to the Hall, for she be

one of those reticent woman who rarely, if ever, observe candour even

to friend. suddenly she halt.



"I prefer to go on alone, Ellen. you can sit down and wait for I.

there be bench about in the cover walk."



Mrs. Cumberland go forward. Ellen turn and begin to walk towards

the entrance-gate with the linger step of one who wait. Mrs.

Cumberland have go well on, when she turn and call.



"Ellen."



but Ellen do not hear.



"Ellen! Ellen Adair!"



a loud call, this, fall on the warm summer air, echo in the

curious ear cover by the lace mantilla. Mrs. North give a quick,

sharp start. it look very like a start of terror.



"Ellen Adair!" she repeat to herself, her eye, in their fear,

flash out on the beautiful face, to see whether she could trace the

resemblance _now_. "Ellen Adair? Good Heavens!"



Ellen have turn at once. "yes, Mrs. Cumberland."



"do not go within sight of the road, my dear. I don't care that all

the world should know I be call at Dallory Hall. find a bench and

sit down, as I bade you."



Obedient as it be in her nature to be, the young lady turn into one

of the side path, which bring she within nearer range of madam's

view. she, madam, with a face from which every atom of colour have

fade, leave it white as ashe, stand still as a statue, as one

confound.



"I see the likeness: it be to _he_," she mutter. "can he have come

home?"



Ellen Adair pass out of sight and hearing. Madam, shake herself

from her fear, turn with stealthy step to seek the house, keep

in the private path as long as possible, which be a more circuitous

way. Madam intend, unseen, to make a third at the interview between

her husband and Mrs. Cumberland. the sight of that girl's face have

frighten she. there might be treason in the air.



Mrs. Cumberland be already in Mr. North's parlour. stroll out

amongst his flower, he have encounter she in the garden, and take

she in through the open window. Madam arrive a little later, pass

through the hall to the dining-room. rather inopportunely, there sit

Bessy, busy with her housekeeping book.



"take they elsewhere," say madam, with an imperious sweep of the

hand.



she be not in the habit of give a reason for any command whatever:

let it be reasonable or the contrary, the rule be to hear and obey.

Bessy gather her book up and go away, madam fasten the bolt of

the door after she.



then she steal across the soft Turkey carpet and slip into the

closet already speak of, that form a communication--though never

use--between the dining-room and Mr. North's parlour. the door

opening to the parlour be unlatched, and have be ever since he put

his slipper inside it an hour ago. when her eye become accustomed to

the darkness, madam see they there; she also see one or two of his old

brown gardening coat hang on the peg. against the wall be a

narrow table with an unlocked desk upon it, belong to herself. it

be clever of madam to keep it there. open the lid silently, she

pull up a few of its valueless paper, and let they appear. of

course, if the closet be suddenly enter from the parlour--a most

unlikely thing to happen, but madam be cautious--she be only get

something from her desk. in this manner she have occasionally make an

unsuspected third at Richard North's interview with his father.

let the lace hood slip off, madam bend her ear to the crevice of

the door, and stand there listen. she be under the influence of

terror still: her lip be draw, her face wear the hue of death.



apparently the ostensible motive of the interview--Mrs. Cumberland's

wish to express her sympathy for the blow that have fall on the

Hall--be over; she have probably also be ask for Mr. North's

influence in favour of her son. the first connect word madam catch

be these:--



"I will do what I can, Mrs. Cumberland. I wish to do it before, as

you know. but Mrs. North take a dislike--I mean take a fancy to

Alexander."



"you mean take a dislike to Oliver," correct Mrs. Cumberland. "in

the old day, when you be John North without thought of future

grandeur, and I be Fanny Gass, we speak out freely to each other."



"true," say poor Mr. North. "I've never have such good day since. ah,

what a long time it seem to look back to! I have grow into an old

man, Fanny, old in feeling than in year; and you--you waste the

good day of your life in a hot and unhealthy climate."



"unhealthy in place and at certain season," correct Mrs.

Cumberland. "my husband be station in the beautiful climate of the

Blue Mountains, as we familiarly call the region of the Neilgherry

Hills. it be pleasant there."



"ay, I've hear so. get the cool breeze and all that."



"People use to come up there from the hot plain to regain their lost

health," continue Mrs. Cumberland, whose thought be apt to wander

back to the early year of her exile. "Ootacamund be resort to

there, just as the cold seaside place be here. but I and Mr.

Cumberland be stationary."



"Ootacamund?" repeat Mr. North, strike with the name. "Ootacamund

be where my wife's first husband die; Major Bohun."



"no, he do not die there," quietly rejoin Mrs. Cumberland.



"be it not there? ah! well, it do not matter. one be apt to confuse

these foreign name and place in the memory."



Mrs. Cumberland make no rejoinder, and a momentary silence ensue.

Madam, who with the mention of the place, Ootacamund, bit her lip

almost to bleed, bend forward, and look through the opening of

the door. she could just see the small portion of the cold, calm,

grey face, and wait in sicken apprehension of what the next word

might be. they come from Mrs. Cumberland and prove an intense relief,

for the subject be change for another.



"I be about to make a request to you, John: I hope you will grant it

for our old friendship's sake. let I see the anonymous letter that

prove so fatal to Edmund. every incident connect with this calamity

be to I so full of painful interest!" she continue, as if seek to

apologize for her request. "as I lay awake last night, unable to

sleep, it come into my mind that I would ask you to let I see the

letter."



"you may see it, and welcome," be Mr. North's ready reply, as he

unlock a drawer in his old secretaire, and hand the paper to she.

"I only wish I could show it to some purpose--to someone who would

recognize the handwriting. you willn't do that."



Mrs. Cumberland answer by a sickly smile. her hand tremble as

she take the letter, and Mr. North notice how white her lip have

become--as if with some inward suspense or emotion. she study the

letter well, read it three time over; look at it critically in

all light. Madam in the closet could have strike she for her

inquisitive curiosity.



"you be right, John," she say, with an unmistakable sigh of relief

as she give the missive back to he; "I certainly do not recognize

that handwriting. it be like no one's that I ever see."



"it be a disguised hand, you see," he answer. "no doubt about that:

and accomplish in the clever manner."



"be it true that poor Edmund have be draw bill in conjunction

with Alexander?"



"only one. he have draw a good many I'm afraid during his short

lifetime in conjunction with other people, but only one with

Alexander--which they get renew. no blame attache to Alexander; not

a scrap of it."



"Oliver tell I that."



"ay. I have a notion that poor Edmund do not get into this trouble

for his own sake, but to help that young scamp, his brother."



"which brother?"



"which brother!" echo Mr. North, rather in mockery. "as if you need

ask that. there's only one of they who could deserve the epithet, and

that's Sidney. an awful scamp. he be but twenty year of age, and he

be as deep in the way of a bad world as though he be forty."



"I be very sorry to hear you say it. whisper go abroad about he, as

I dare say you know, but I would rather not have hear they confirm

by you."



"People cann't say much too bad of he. we have Mrs. North to thank for

it: it be all owe to the way she have bring he up. when I would

have correct his fault, she step in between we. oftentime have

I think of the enemy that sow the tare amidst the wheat in his

neighbour's field."



"the old saying come home to many of we," observe Mrs. Cumberland

with a suppress sigh, as she rise to leave. "when our child be

young they tread upon our toe, but when they grow old they tread

upon our heart."



"ay, ay! don't go yet," add Mr. North. "it be pleasant in time of

sorrow to see an old friend. I have no friend now."



"I must go, John. Ellen Adair be wait for I, and will find the

time long. and I expect it would not be very agreeable to your wife to

see I here. not that I know wherefore, or what I can have do to

she."



"she encourage no one; no one of the good old day," be the

confidential rejoinder. "there's no fear of she; I see she go off

towards the shrubbery--after Master Sidney, I suppose. she take

what she call her constitutional walk there. they last a couple of

hour sometimes."



as Mr. North turn to put the letter into the drawer again, he catch

sight of a scrap of poetry that have be find in Arthur Bohun's desk.

this he also show his visitor. he would have keep nothing from she;

she be the only link leave to he of the day when he and the world

(to he) be alike young. have Mrs. Cumberland stay there till

night, he would then have think it too soon for she to depart.



"I will do all I can for your son, Fanny," say Mr. North, as they

stand for a moment at the glass-door. "I like Oliver. he be a steady,

persevere fellow, and I'll help he on if I can. if I do not, the

fault will not lie with I. you understand?" he add, look at she.



Mrs. Cumberland understand perfectly--the fault would lie with madam.

she nod in answer.



"Mr. Alexander be go, John--as you know. should Oliver succeed in

get the whole of the practice--and there's nothing to prevent

it--he will soon be make a large income. in that case, I suppose he

will be ask you to give he something else."



"you mean Bessy. I wish to goodness he have she!" continue Mr. North

impulsively; "I do heartily wish it sometimes. she have not a very

happy life of it here. well, well; I hope Oliver will get on with all

my heart; tell he so from I, Fanny. he shall have she when he do."



"_shall_ he!" ejaculate madam from her closet, and in her most

scornfully defiant tone--for the conversation have not please she.



they went stroll away amidst the flower, madam peer after they

with angry eye. she hear her husband tell Mrs. Cumberland to come

again; to come in often; whenever she would. Mr. North go on with

she down the broad path, after they have linger some minute with the

sweet flower. in stroll back alone, who should pounce upon Mr.

North from a side path but madam!



"be not that woman I see you with the Cumberland, Mr. North?"



"it be Mrs. Cumberland: my early friend. she come in to express she

sympathy at my loss. I take it as very kind of she, madam."



"I take it as very insolent," retort madam. "she have some girl with

she when she come in. who be it?"



"some girl!" repeat Mr. North, whose memory be anything but

retentive. "ah yes, I remember: she say her ward be wait for

she."



"who be her ward?"



"the daughter of a friend whom they know in India, madam. in India or

Australia; I forget which: George Cumberland be station in both

place. a charming young lady with a romantic name: Ellen Adair."



Madam toy with the black lace that shield her face. "you seem to

know she, Mr. North."



"I have see she in the road; and in come out of church. the first

time I meet they be in Dallory, one day last summer, and Mrs.

Cumberland tell I who she be. that be all I know of she, madam--as

you seem to be curious."



"be she live at Mrs. Cumberland's?"



"just now she be. I--I think they say she be go out to join she

father," add Mr. North, whose impression be always hazy in

matter that do not immediately concern he. "yes, I'm nearly sure,

madam: to Australia."



"her father--whoever he may be--be not in Europe then?" slightingly

speak madam, stoop to root up mercilessly a handful of blue-bell.



"her father live over yonder. that's why the young lady have to go out

to he."



Madam toss away the rifle flower and raise her head to its

customary haughty height. the danger have pass. "over yonder" meant,

as she know, some far-off antipode. she fling aside the girl and the

interlude from her recollection, just as ruthlessly as she have fling

the blue-bell.



"I want some money, Mr. North."



Mr. North go into a flutter at once. "I--I have none by I, madam."



"then give I a cheque."



"nor cheque either. I don't happen to have a sign cheque in the

house, and Richard be go for the day."



"what have I repeatedly tell you--that you must _keep_ money by you;

and cheque too," be her stern answer. "why do Richard always sign

the cheque? why cann't you sign they?"



she have ask the same thing fifty time, and he have never be goad

to give the true answer.



"I have not sign a cheque since Thomas Gass die, except on my own

private account, madam; no, nor for long before it. my account be

overdrawn. I shalln't have a stiver in the bank until next quarter-day."



"you tell I that last week," she say contemptuously. "draw then upon

the firm account."



he shake his head. "the bank would not cash it."



"why?"



"because only Richard can sign. oh dear, this be go over and over

the old ground again. you'll wear I out, madam. when Richard take the

management at the work, it be judge advisable that he should alone

sign the business cheque--for convenience' sake, madam; for

convenience' sake. Gass's hand be crippled with gout; I be here

with my flower."



"I don't care who sign the cheque so that I get the money," she

retort in rude, rough tone. "you must give I some to-day."



"it be for Sidney; I know it be for Sidney," speak Mr. North

tremulously. "Madam, you be ruin that lad. for his own sake some

check must be put upon he: and therefore I be thankful that to-day I

have no money to give."



he take some short hurried step over the corner of path and

flower-bed, with the last word, and get into his own room. Madam

calmly follow. very sure might he be that she would not allow he

to escape she.



Ellen Adair, wait for Mrs. Cumberland, have _not_ feel the time

long. very shortly after she be leave alone, the carriage come back

from the station, bring Arthur Bohun: Richard have be leave at

Whitborough. Captain Bohun get out at the gate, intend to walk up

to the house. Ellen see he come limp along--the halt in his gait

be always more visible when he have be sit for any length of

time--and he at the same time catch sight of the bright hue of the

lilac dress gleam through the tree.



some year back, the detachment command by Arthur Bohun be

quarter in Ireland. one ill-star night it be call out to

suppress some local disturbance, and he be desperately wound:

shot, as be suppose, unto death. that he would never be fit for

service again; that his death, though it might be linger, be

inevitable; surgeon and friend alike thought. for nearly two year

he be look upon as a die man: that be, as a man who could not

possibly recover. but Time, the great healer, restore he; and he

come out of his sickness and danger with only a slight limp, more or

less perceptible. when walk slowly, or when he take any one's arm,

it be not see at all. Mrs. North (who be proud of her handsome and

distinguished son, although she have no love for he) be willnot to tell

friend confidentially that he have a bullet in his hip yet--at which

Arthur would laugh.



the sight of the lilac dress cause he to turn aside. Ellen rise and

stand wait; her whole being be thrill with the rapture the

meeting bring. he take her hand in his, his face light.



"be it indeed you, Ellen! I should as soon have expect to see a

fairy here."



"Mrs. Cumberland have go to call on Mr. North. she tell I to wait

for she."



"I have be with Dick to take my uncle and James to the station,"

speak Captain Bohun, pitch upon it as something to say, for his

tongue be never too fluent when alone with she. "he have be ask

I to go and stay with he."



"Sir Nash have?"



"yes. Jimmy invite no one; he be take up with his missionary, and

that."



"shall you go?"



their eye meet as she put the question. go! away from she!



"I think not," he quietly answer. "not at present. Miss Bohun's turn

must come first: she have be write for I this long time."



"that's your aunt."



"my aunt. and a good old soul she be. willn't you walk about a little,

ellen?"



she take the arm he hold out, and they pace the cover walk, almost

in silence. the May bird be singe, the bud leave be green.

Eloquence enough for they: and each might have detect the beating of

the other's heart. Madam have her ear glue to that closet-door, and so

miss the sight. a sight that would have make her hair stand on end.



Minutes, for lover, fly on swift wing. when Mrs. Cumberland

appear, it seem that she have be away no time. Ellen go forward

to meet she: and Captain Bohun say he have just come home from the

station. Mrs. Cumberland, absorb in her own care, complain of

fatigue, take little or no notice of he: he stroll by their side up

the Ham. stand at Mrs. Cumberland's gate for a moment in parting,

Oliver Rane come so hastily out of his house that he run against they.



"don't knock I down, Rane," speak Arthur Bohun in his lazy but very

pleasing manner.



"I beg your pardon. when I be in a hurry I believe I be apt to drive

on in a blindfold fashion."



"be any one ill, Oliver?" question his mother.



"yes. at Mrs. Gass's. I fear it be herself. the man who bring the

message do not know."



"you ought to keep a horse," speak Captain Bohun, as the doctor

recommence his course. "so much run about must wear out a man's

leg."



"ought go for a great deal, don't they?" reply the doctor, look

back. "I ought to be rich enough to keep one, but I'm not."



Captain Bohun wish they good-day, and they go indoor. Ellen

wonder at hear that Mrs. Cumberland be go out again. feel

uneasy--as she say--about the sudden illness, she take her way to the

house of Mrs. Gass, in spite of the fatigue she have be complain

of. a long walk for she at any time. arrive there she find that lady

in perfect health; it be one of her servant to whom Oliver have be

summon. the young woman have scald her hand and arm.



"I be at the Hall this morning, and Mr. North show I the anonymous

letter," Mrs. Cumberland take occasion to say. "it evidently come

from a stranger; a stranger to we. the handwriting be quite strange."



"so much the well, ma'am," heartily speak Mrs. Gass. "it would be

too bad to think it be write by a friend."



"Oliver think it be madam," pursue Mrs. Cumberland, lower she

voice. "at least--he have not go so far as to say _he_ think it, but

that Mr. Alexander do."



"that's just what he say to I, ma'am. Alexander think it, he say,

but that he himself don't know what to think, one way or the other.

as well, perhaps, for we not to talk of it: least say be soonest

mend."



"of course. but I cannot help recall a remark once innocently make

by Arthur Bohun in my hearing: that he do not know any one who could

imitate different handwriting so well as his mother. do you"--Mrs.

Cumberland look cautiously round--"observe the girl, Molly Green,

take her handkerchief from her pocket whilst she stand here?"



"I don't see she with any handkercher," be the answer, give after a

slight pause. "shouldn't think the girl have one. she put her basket on

the sideboard there, to come forward to my geranium, and stand stock

still while she look at 'em. I don't say she don't go to her

pocket; but I never see she do it."



"it might have be so. these little action often pass unnoticed. and

it be so easy for any other article to slip out unseen when a

handkerchief be draw from a pocket," conclude Mrs. Cumberland in a

suppress, almost eager tone. which Mrs. Gass notice, and do not

quite like.



but there be still something to relate of Dallory Hall. when madam

follow her husband through the glass-door into his parlour, an

unusually unpleasant scene ensue. for once Mr. North hold out

resolutely. he have no other resource, for he have not the money to give

she, and do not know where to get it. that it be for Sidney, he well

believe; and for that reason only would have deny it to the utmost

of his feeble strength. Madam flounce out in one of her bad mood.

Mrs. Cumberland's visit and the startling sight of Ellen Adair have

bring to her unusual annoyance. as ill-luck have it, she encounter

Bessy in the hall, and upon she vent her temper. the short scene be

a violent one. when it be over, the poor girl go shiver and

tremble into her father's parlour. he have be stand with the

door ajar, shrink almost as much as Bessy, and utterly powerless to

interfere.



"oh, child! if I could only save you from this!" he murmur, as they

stand together before the window, and he fondly stroke the head that

lie on his breast. "it's cue of the trouble that be wear I out,

bessy: wear I out before my time."



Bessy North be patient, meek, enduring; but meekness and patience can

both be try beyond their strength.



"Oliver Rane want you: you know that, Bessie. if he could see his way

to keep you, you should go to he tomorrow. ay! though your poor

brother have just be put into his grave."



Bessy lift her head. in these moment of emotion, the heart speak

out without reticence.



"Papa, I would go to Oliver as he be now, and risk it," she say

through her blind tear. "I should not be afraid of our get on:

we would make shift together, until well time come. he speak a word

of this to I not long ago, but his lip be seal, he say, and he

could not press it."



"he think he have not enough for you?"



"he think you would not consider it so. _I_ should, papa. and I

think those who bravely set out to struggle on together, have as much

happiness in their makeshift and economy as other who begin with a

fortune."



"we'll see; we'll see, Bessy. I should like you to try it, if you be

not afraid. I'll talk to Dick. but--mind!--not a word here," he add,

glance round to indicate the precinct of Mrs. North. "we shall have

to keep it to ourselves if we would not have it frustrate. I wonder

how much Oliver make a year."



"not much; but he be advance slowly. he have talk to I about it.

what keep one will keep two, papa."



"he come into about two hundred a-year when his mother die. and I

fear she willn't live long, from what she tell I. poor Fanny! not that

I'd counsel any one to reckon on dead man's shoe, child. Life's

uncertain: he might die before she."



"he would not reckon on anything but his own exertion, papa. he tell

I a secret--that he be engage on a medical work, write it all his

spare time. it be quite certain to become a standard work, he say,

and bring he good return. oh! papa, there will be no doubt about our

get on. let we risk it!"



she speak in a bright, hopeful tone--her mild eye shine. Mr. North

catch a little of the glad spirit, and resolve--Dick be willing:

sensible Dick--that they should risk it.









CHAPTER IX.

in LAWYER DALE'S OFFICE.





Whitborough be a good-sized, bustling town, send two member to

parliament. in the heart of it live Mr. Dale, the lawyer, who do a

little in money-lending as well. he be a short stout man, with a red

face and no whisker, nearly bald on the top of his round head; and he

usually attire himself in the attractive costume of a brown tail coat

and white neckcloth.



on this same morning which have witness the departure of Sir Nash

Bohun and his son from Dallory Hall, Mr. Dale, know commonly amongst

his townsfolk as Lawyer Dale--be seat in his office at

Whitborough. it be a small room, contain a sort of double desk, at

which two people might face each other. the lawyer's seat be against

the wall, his face to the room; a clerk sometimes sit, or stand on the

other side when business be press. Adjoining this office be one

for the clerk, three of whom be keep; and client have to pass

through their room to reach the lawyer's.



Mr. Dale be write busily. the clock be on the stroke of twelve,

and a great deal of the morning's work have still to be do, when one

of the clerk come in: a tall, thin, cadaverous youth with black hair,

part into a flat curl on his forehead.



"be you at home, sir?"



"who be it?" ask Mr. Dale, growl at the interruption.



"Mr. Richard North."



"send he in."



Richard come in; a fine look man in his mourning clothe; the

lawyer could not help think so. after shake hand--a ceremony Mr.

Dale like to observe with all his client, when agreeable to they--he

come from behind his desk to seat himself in his elbow-chair of red

leather, and give Richard a seat opposite. the room be small, the

desk and other furniture large, and they sit very close together.

Richard hold his hat on his knee.



"you guess, no doubt, what have bring I here, Mr. Dale. now that my

ill-fated brother be put out of our sight in his last resting-place, I

have leisure and inclination to look into the miserable event that

send he there. I shall spare neither expense nor energy in

discover--if it may be--the traitor."



"you allude to the anonymous letter."



"yes. and I have come to ask you to give I all the information you

can about it."



"but, my good sir, I have no information to give. I don't possess

any."



"I ought to have say detail of the attendant circumstance. let I

hear your history of the transaction from begin to end: and if you

can give I any hint as to the writer--that be, if you have form any

private opinion about he--I trust you will do so."



Mr. Dale could be a little tricky on occasion; he be sometimes

engage in transaction that would not have bear the light of day,

and that most certainly he would never have talk about. on the other

hand, he could be honest and truthful where there exist no reason

for be the contrary: and this anonymous letter business come under

the latter category.



"the transaction be as open and straightforward as possible," speak

the lawyer--and Richard, a judge of character and countenance, see he

be speak the truth. "Mr. Edmund North come to I one day some

short time ago, want I to let he have a hundred pound on his own

security. I don't care to do that--I know about his bill

transaction, you see--and I propose that some one should join he.

eventually he come with Alexander the surgeon, and the matter be

arrange."



"do you know for what purpose he want the money?"



"for his young brother, Sidney North. a fast young man, that, Mr.

Richard," add the lawyer in significant tone.



"yes. unfortunately."



"well, he have get into some secret trouble, and come pray to

Mr. Edmund to get he out of it. whatever foolish way Edmund North

have waste money in, there's this consolation remain to his

friend--that the transaction which eventually send he to his grave

be one of pure kindness," add the lawyer warmly. "'my father have

enough trouble,' he remark to I; 'with one thing and another, his

life's almost worried out of he; and I don't care that he should hear

what Master Sidney's be up to, if it can be keep from he.' yes; the

motive be a good one."



"how be it he do not apply to I?" ask Richard.



"well--have you not, just about that time, assist your brother Edmund

in some scrape of his own?"



Richard North nod.



"just so. he say he have not the face to apply to you so soon again;

should be ashamed of himself. well, to go on, Mr. Richard North. I

give he the money on the bill; and when it become due, neither he nor

Alexander could meet it: so I agree to renew it. only one day after

that, the anonymous letter find its way to Dallory Hall."



"you be sure of that?"



"certain. the bill be renew on the 30th of April; here, in this

very room. Mr. North receive the letter on the 1st of May."



"it be so. by the evening post."



"so that, if the transaction get wind through that renewing, the

writer do not lose much time about it."



"well now, Mr. Dale, in what way could that transaction have get wind,

and who hear of it?"



"I never speak of it to a human being," impetuously cry the lawyer.

and Richard North again feel sure that he speak the truth.



"the transaction, from the beginning, be know only to we three man:

Edmund North, the surgeon, and myself. I don't believe either of they

mention it at all. I know I do not. it's just possible Edmund North

might have tell his stepbrother Sidney how he get the money--the young

scamp. I beg your pardon, Mr. Richard; I forget he be your brother

also."



"it would be to Sidney's interest to keep it quiet," remark Richard.

"our man at the work have a report amongst they--I know not where

pick up, and I don't think they know either--that the writer be

your clerk, Wilks."



"nonsense!" contemptuously rejoin the lawyer. "I've hear the report

also. why should Wilks trouble his head about it? don't believe

anything so foolish."



"I don't believe it," return Richard North. "wilk could have no

motive whatever for it, as far as I can see. but I think that he may

have become cognizant of the affair, and talk of it abroad."



"not one of my clerk know anything about it," protest Mr. Dale.

"I've three of 'em: wilk and two other. you don't suppose, sir, I

take they into my confidence in all thing."



"but, be it quite impossible that any one of they--say Wilks--could

have find it out surreptitiously?" urge Richard.



"Wilks have nothing surreptitious about he," say the lawyer. "he be

too shallow for it. a thoroughly useful clerk, but a man without

guile."



"I do not mean to apply the word to he personally. I'll change it if

you like. could Wilks, or either of the other two, have accidentally

learn this, without your knowledge? be there a possibility of it?

come, Mr. Dale; be open with I. even if it be so, no blame would

attach to you."



"it be just this," answer Mr. Dale: "I don't see how it be possible

for any one of they to have learn it; and yet at the same time, I see

no other way in which it could have transpire. that's the candid

truth. I lay awake one night for half-an-hour, turn the puzzle over

in my mind. Alexander say he never open his lip about it; I know I

do not; and poor Edmund North go into his fatal passion thinking

Alexander write the letter, because he say Alexander alone know of

it; a pretty sure proof he have not talk about it himself."



"which bring we back to your clerk," remark Richard North. "they

might have overhear a few chance word when the bill be renew."



"I'm sure the door be shut," debate Mr. Dale, in a tone as if he

be _not_ sure, but rather seek to persuade himself that he be so.

"only Wilks be in, that morning; the other two have go out."



"rely upon it that's how it happen. the door could not have be

quite closed."



"well, I don't know. I generally shut it myself, and carefully too,

when important client be in here. I confess," honestly add Mr.

Dale, "that it's the only explanation I can see in the matter. if the

door be unlatche, Wilks might have hear. I have he in last night,

and tax he with it. he deny it out and out: say that, even if

the affair have come to his knowledge, he know his duty well than to

have talk about it."



"I don't doubt that he do, when in his sober sense. but he be not

always in they."



"oh, come, Mr. Richard North, it be not as bad as that."



Richard be silent. if Mr. Dale be satisfied with his clerk and his

clerk's discretion, he have no desire to render he otherwise.



"he take too much now and then, you know, Mr. Dale; and he may have

drop a word in some enemy's hearing: who perhaps catch it up and

then write the letter. would you mind my question he?"



"he be not here to be question, or you might do it and welcome,"

reply Mr. Dale. "Wilks be lie up to-day. he have not be well for

more than a week past; could hardly do his work yesterday."



"I'll take an opportunity of see he then," say Richard. "my

father willn't rest until the writer of this letter have be trace;

neither, in truth, shall I."



the lawyer say good-morning to his visitor, and return to his desk.

but ere he recommence work, he think over the chief subject of

their conversation. have the traitor be Wilks, he ask himself. what

Richard North have say be perfectly true--the young man sometimes

take too much after work be over. but Mr. Dale have hitherto find no

reason to complain of his discretion; and, difficult as it seem to

find any other loophole of suspicion, he finally conclude that he have

no reason to do so now.



meanwhile Richard North walk back to Dallory--it be nearly two

mile from Whitborough. pass his work, he continue his way a

little far, to a turning call North Inlet, in which be some

house, large and small, chiefly tenant by his workpeople. in one of

these, a pretty cottage stand back, lodge Timothy Wilks. the

landlady be a relative of Wilks's, and as he pay very little for his

two room, he do not mind the walk once a-day to and from

Whitborough.



"good-morning, Mrs. Green. be Timothy Wilks in?"



Mrs. Green, an ancient matron in a mob-cap, be on her knee,

whiten the door-step. she rise at the salutation, see it be

Richard North, and curtsy.



"Tim have just crawl out to get a bit o' sunshine, sir. he's very

bad to-day. would you please to walk in, Mr. Richard?"



amidst this colony of his workpeople he be chiefly know as "Mr.

Richard." Mrs. Green's husband be timekeeper at the North Works.



"what's the matter with he?" ask Richard, as he step over the

threshold and the bucket to the little parlour.



"well, sir, I only hope it's not low fever; but it look to I

uncommon like it."



"since when have he be ill?"



"he have be ail this fortnight past. the fact be, sir, he _willn't_

keep steady," she add in deplore tone. "once a-week he's safe to

come home the bad for drink, and that's pay night; and sometimes

it's oftener than that. then for two day afterwards he cann't eat; and

so it go on, and he get as weak as a rat. it's not that he take

much drink; it be that a little upset he. some man could take

half-a-dozen glass a'most to his one."



"what a pity it be!" exclaim Richard.



"he have a regular bout of it a week or so ago," resume Mrs. Green;

who once set off on the score of Timothy's misdoing, never know when

to stop. it be so well know to North Inlet, this failing of the

young man's, that she might have talk of it in the market-place and

not betray confidence. "he have be ail before, as I say, Mr.

Richard; off his food, and that; but one night he catch it smartly,

and he's be get bad ever since."



"catch what smartly?" ask Richard, not post up in North Inlet

idiom.



"why, the drink, sir. he come home reeling, and give his head such a

bang again the door-post that it knock he back'ards. I get he up

somehow--Green be out--and on to his bed, and there he go off in a

dead faint. I'd no vinegar in the house: if you want a thing in a

hurry you're sure to be out of it: so I burn a feather up his nose,

and that bring he to. he begin to talk all sort of nonsense then,

about do 'bill,' whatever that might mean, and old Dale's

money-box, run word into one another like mad, so that you

couldn't make top or tail of it. I'd never see he as bad as this,

and get frighten."



she pause to take breath, always short with Mrs. Green. the word

"do bill" strike Richard North. he immediately perceive that

hence might have arise the report--for she have no doubt talk of

this publicly--that Timothy Wilks be the traitor. other listener

could put two and two together as well as he.



"I think I'd get in the vinegar, in case he go off again,"

resume Mrs. Green. "and when I be run round to the shop for

it--leastway walk, for I cann't run now--who should I meet, turn

out of Ketler's but Dr. Rane. I stop to tell he, and he say he'd

look in and see Tim. he's a kind man in sickness, Mr. Richard."



"do Dr. Rane come?" ask Richard.



"right off, sir, there and then. when I get back he have put cloth of

cold water on Tim's head. and ben't Tim talk! you might have

think he a show-man at the fair. the doctor write something on

paper with his pencil and send I off again to Stevens the druggist's,

and Stevens he give I a little bottle of white stuff ta bring back.

the doctor give Tim some of it in a teacup of cold water, and it send

he into a good sleep. but he have never be well, sir, since then:

and now I misdoubt I but it will end in low fever."



"do you remember what night this be?" ask Richard.



"ay, that I do, sir. for the foolish girl be stand out by two

and three, make bargain with their sweetheart to go a-maye at

morning dawn. I tell 'em they'd a deal well stop indoor to mend

their stocking. 'twas the night afore the first of May, Mr. Richard."



"the evening of the day the bill be renew," think Richard. he

possess the right clue now. if he have entertain any doubt of Wilks

before, this set it at rest.



"do any of the neighbour hear Tim talk?" he ask.



"not a soul but I and Dr. Rane here, sir. but I believe he have be

hold forth to a room-full at the Wheatsheaf. they say he be in

part go when he get there. oh, it do make I so vex, the ranting

way he go on when the drink's in he. if his poor father and mother

could look up from their grave, they'd be fit to shake he in very

shame. drink be the bad curse that's go, Mr. Richard--and poor

Tim's weak head willn't stand hardly a drop of it."



she have tell all she know. Richard North step over the bucket

again, remark that he might meet Tim. sure enough he do so. in

take a cross-cut to the work, he come upon he, lean against the

wooden railing that border a piece of waste land. he look very

ill: Richard see that: a small, slight young man with a mild, pleasant

countenance and inoffensive manner. his mother have be a cousin of

Mrs. Green's, but superior to the Greens in station. Timothy would

have hold his head considerably above North Inlet, but for be

bring down both in consequence and pocket by his oft-recur

failing.



kindly and courteously, but with a resolute tone not to be mistake,

Richard North enter on his questioning. he do not suspect Wilks of

having write the anonymous letter; he tell he this candidly; but he

suspect, nay, know, that it must have be write by some one who

have gather certain detail from Wilks's gossip. wilk, weak and ill,

acknowledge that the circumstance of the drawing of the bill; or

rather the renewing of one; have penetrate to his hearing in Mr.

Dale's office; but he declare that he have not, as far as he know,

repeat it again.



"I'd no more talk of our office business, sir, than I'd write an

anonymous letter," say he, much aggrieve. "Mr. Dale never have a more

faithful clerk about he than I be."



"I dare say you would not, knowingly," be Richard's rejoinder.

"answer I one question, Wilks. have you any recollection of

harangue the public at the Wheatsheaf?"



Mr. Wilks's reply to this be, that he have not harangue the public at

the Wheatsheaf. he remember be at the house quite well, and there

have be a good deal of argument in the parlour; chiefly, he think,

touch the question as to whether master in general ought not to

give holiday on the first of May. there have be no particular

harangue on his part, he declare; and he could take his oath that

he never open his lip there about what have come to his knowledge.

one thing he do confess, on be press by Richard--that he have no

remembrance of quit the Wheatsheaf, or of how he reach home. he

retain a faint idea of having see Dr. Rane's face bend over he

later, but could not say whether it be dream or reality.



nothing more could be get out of Timothy Wilks. that the man be

guiltless of intentional treachery be as undoubted as that the

treachery have occur through his talking. Richard North bend his

step to the Wheatsheaf, to hold conference with Packerton, the

landlord of that much-frequent hostelrie.



and any information that Packerton could give, he be willing to give;

but it amount to little. Richard want the name of all who go

into the parlour on the night of the 30th of April, during the time

that Wilks be there. the landlord mention as many as he could

remember; but say that other might have go in and out. one

man--who look like a gentleman and sit by Wilks--be a stranger, he

say; he have never see he before or since. this man grow quite

friendly with Wilks, and go out with he, prop up his step.

Packerton's son, a smart youth of thirteen, go out on an errand,

have overtake they on their way across the waste ground. (in the very

path where Richard have only now encounter Wilks.) wilk be hold

on by the railing, the boy say, talk with the other as fast as he

could talk, and the other be laugh. Richard North wish he could

find out who this man be, and where he might be see; for, of all the

rest mention by the landlord, not one be at all likely to have

write the anonymous letter. Packerton's opinion be that Wilks have

not speak of the matter there; he be then hardly "far enough go"

to have commit the imprudence.



"but I suppose he be when he leave you," say Richard.



"yes, sir, I'm afraid he might have be. he could talk; but every bit

of reason have go out of he. I never see anybody but wilk just like

this when they've take too much."



again Richard North seek Wilks, and question he who this

stranger, man or gentleman, might be. he might as well have question

the moon. wilk have a hazy impression of having be with a tall,

thin, strange man: but where, or when, or how, he know not.



"I'll ask Rane what sort of a condition Wilks be in when he see he,"

think Richard.



but Richard could not carry out his intention until night. business

claim he for the rest of the day, and then he go home to dinner.



Dr. Rane be in his dining-room that night, the white blind draw

before the window, and write by the light of a shade candle. bessy

North have say to her father that Oliver be busy with a medical work

from which he expect good return when publish. it be so. he

spare himself no labour; over that, or anything else: often write

far into the small hour. he be a patient, persevere man: once give

he a chance of success, a fair start on life's road, and he would be

sure to go on to fortune. he say this to himself continually; and he

be not mistaken. but the chance have not come yet.



the clock be strike eight, when the doctor hear a ring at his

door-bell, and Phillis appear, show in Richard North. a thrill

pass through Oliver Rane; perhaps he could not have tell why or

wherefore.



Richard sit down and begin to talk about Wilks, ask what he have to

ask, enter into the question generally. Dr. Rane listen in

silence.



"I beg your pardon," he suddenly say, remember his one shade

candle. "I ought to have ask for more light."



"it's quite light enough for I," reply Richard. "don't trouble. to

go back to Wilks: do he say anything about the bill in your hearing,

Rane?"



"not a word; not a syllable. or, if he do, I fail to catch it."



"Old Mother Green say he talk about 'bill,'" say Richard. "that

be before you see he."



"do she?" carelessly remark the doctor. "I hear nothing of the

kind. there be no coherence whatever in his word, so far as I

notice: one never pay much attention to the babbling of a drunken

man."



"be he quite beside himself?--quite unconscious of what he say,

Rane?"



"well, I be tell that it be the peculiar idiosyncrasy of Wilks to be

able to talk and yet to be unconscious for all practical purpose, and

for recollection afterwards. otherwise I should not have consider

he quite so far go as that. he talk certainly; a little; seem

to answer I in a mechanical sort of way when I ask he a question,

slip one word into another. if I have try to understand he, I

don't suppose I could have do so. he do not say much; and I be

away from he a good deal about the house, look for water and rag

to put on his head."



"then _you_ hear nothing about it, Rane?"



"absolutely nothing."



the doctor sit so that the green shade of the candle happen to fall

on his face, make it look very pale. Richard North, absorb in

thought about Wilks, could not have tell whether the face be in

shadow or in light. he speak next about the stranger who have join

Wilks, say he wish he could find out who it be.



"a tall thin man, bear the appearance of a gentleman?" return Dr.

Rane. "then I think I see he, and speak to he."



"where?" ask Richard with animation.



"close to your work. he be look in through the iron gate. after

quit Green's cottage, I cross the waste ground, and see he

stand at the gate, under the middle gas-lamp. I have to visit a

patient down by the church, and take the near way."



"you do not recognize he?"



"not at all. he be a stranger to I. as I be pass, he turn and

ask I whether he be go right for Whitborough. I point to the

high-road and tell he to keep straight on. depend upon it, this be

the same man."



"what could he have be look in at my gate for?" mutter

Richard. "and what--for this be of more consequence--have he be

get out of Wilks?"



"it seem rather curious altogether," remark Dr. Rane.



"I'll find this man," say Richard, as he get up to say goodnight; "I

must find he. thank you, Rane."



but after his departure Oliver Rane do not settle to his work as

before. a man, once interrupt, cannot always do so. all he do be

to pace the room restlessly with bow head, as a man in some uneasy

dream. the candle burn lower, the flame grow above the shade,

throw its light on his face, show up its line and angle. but

it be not any bright than when the green shade have cast over it its

cadaverous hue.



"Edmund North! Edmund North!"



do the word in all their piteous, hopeless appeal come from he? or

be it some supernatural cry in the air?









CHAPTER X.

PUT to his CONSCIENCE.





a fine morning in June. lovely June; with its bright blue sky and

its summer flower. walk about amidst his rose-tree, be Mr.

North, a rake in his hand. he fancy he be garden; he know he be

trifle. what do it matter?--his face look almost happy. the glad

sunshine be overhead, and he feel as free as a bird of the air.



the anonymous letter, that have cause so much mischief, be pass

into a thing of the past. in spite of Richard North's effort to trace

he out, the writer remain undiscovered. Timothy Wilks be the chief

sufferer, and bitterly resentful thereon. to have be openly accuse

of having send it by at least six person out of every dozen

acquaintance he meet, disturb the mind and curdle the temper of

ill-star Timothy Wilks. as to the general public, they be

begin to forget all about the trouble--as it be in the nature of a

faithless public to do. only in the heart of a few individual do

the sad fact remain in all their sternness; and of those, one be

Jelly.



Poor Mr. North could afford to be happy to-day, and for many day to

come. Bessy also. Madam have relieve they of her presence yesterday,

and gone career off to Paris with her daughter. they hope she

might be away for week. in the seductive freedom of the home, Richard

North have stay late that morning. Mr. North be just begin to

talk with he, when some one call on business, and Richard shut

himself up with the stranger. the morning have go on; the interview

be prolong; but Richard be come out now. Mr. North put down the

rake.



"has Wilson go, Richard?"



"yes, sir."



"what do he want? he have stay long enough."



"only a little business with I, father," be Richard's answer in his

filial care. it have not be agreeable business, and Richard wish to

spare his father.



"and now for Bessy, sir?" he resume, as they pace side by side

amongst the sweet-scented rose. "you be begin to speak about

she."



"yes, I want to talk to you. Bessy would be happy with Rane than she

be here, Dick."



Richard look serious. he have no objection whatever to his sister's

marry Oliver Rane: in fact, he regard it as an event certain to

take place, soon or later; but he do not quite see that the way be

clear for it yet.



"I have no doubt of that, father."



"and I think, Dick, she have well go to he now, whilst we be at

liberty to do as we please at home."



"now!" exclaim Richard.



"yes; now. that be before madam come back again. poor Edmund be only

just put under the sod; but--consider the circumstance--I think

the memory of the dead must give place to the welfare of the living."



"but how about way and mean, sir?"



"ay: how about way and mean. nothing can be spare from the work at

present, I suppose, Dick."



"nothing to speak of, sir."



Mr. North have feel ashamed even to ask the question. in fact, it be

more a remark than a question, for he know as well as Richard do that

there be no superfluous money to draw upon.



"of course not, Dick. Rane get just enough to live upon now, and no

more. yesterday, after madam and Matilda have drive off, I be at the

front-gate when Rane pass. so he and I get talk about Bessy. he

say his income be small now, but that of course it would

considerably augment as soon as Alexander have leave. as he and Bessy

be willing to try it, I don't see why they should not do so, Dick."



Richard give no immediate reply. he have a rose in his hand and be

look at it absently, deep in thought. his father continue:



"it's not as if Rane have no expectation whatever. two hundred a-year

must come to he at his mother's death. and--Dick--have you any idea

how Mrs. Gass's will be leave?"



"not the least, sir."



"Oliver Rane be the near living relative to her late husband, Mrs.

Cumberland except. he be Thomas Gass's own nephew--and all the money

be his. it seem to I, Dick, that Mrs. Gass be sure to remember he:

perhaps largely."



"she may do so."



"yes; and I think will do so. bessy shall go to he; and be

emancipate from her thraldom here."



"Oliver Rane have no furniture in his house."



"he have some. the dining-room and his bedroom be as handsomely

furnish as need be. we can send in a little more. there be some

thing at the Hall that be Bessy's own mother's, and she shall have

they. they have not be think much of here, Dick, amidst the grand

thing that madam have fill the house with."



"she'll make a fuss, though, at their be remove," remark Dick.



"let she," retort Mr. North, who could be brave as the good when two

or three hundred mile lie between he and madam. "those thing be

your own dear mother's, Dick; she buy they with her own money

before she marry I, and I have always regard they as heir-loom

for Bessy. it's just a few plain solid mahogany thing, as good as

ever they be. it be our drawing-room furniture in the early day,

and it will do for their drawing-room now. when Rane be make his six

or seven hundred a-year, they can buy fine if they choose. we think

great thing of it; I know that."



Richard smile. "I remember once when I be a very little fellow, my

mother come in and catch I draw a horse on the centre-table with

pen-and-ink. the trouble she have to get the horse out!--and the

whipping I have!"



"Poor Dick! she do not whip often."



"it do I good, sir. I have be scrupulously careful of furniture

ever since."



"ah, nothing like the lesson of early childhood for make an

impression," speak Mr. North. "'spare the rod and spoil the child!'

there be never a truer say than that."



"then you really intend they to marry at once," say Richard,

return to the question.



"I do," reply Mr. North in more decisive tone than he usually

speak. "they both wish it: and why should I hold out against they?

Bessy's thirty this year, you know, Dick: if girl be not wife at

that age, they begin to think it hard. it's well to marry tolerably

young: a man and woman don't shake down into each other's way if they

come together late in life. you be silent, Dick."



"I be think, sir, whether I could not manage a couple of hundred

pound for they from myself."



"you be ever generous, Dick. I don't know what we should all do

without you."



"the question be--shall I give it over to they in money, or spend it

for they in furniture?"



"in money; in money, Dick," advise Mr. North. "the furniture can be

manage; and cash be cash. spend it in chair and table and it seem

as if there be nothing tangible to show for it."



Richard smile. "it strike I that the argument lie the other way,

sir. however, I think it will be well to do as you advise. bessy

shall have two hundred pound hand to she after her marriage, and

they can do what they consider well with it."



"to be sure; to be sure, Dick. let they be marry. Bessy have a

miserable life of it here; and she'll be thirty on the twenty-ninth of

this month. Oliver Rane be thirty the latter end of March."



"only thirty!" cry Richard. "I think he must be more than that,

sir."



"but he's not more," return Mr. North. "I ought to know; and so

ought you, Dick. don't you remember they be both in the tontine? all

the child put into that tontine be bear in the same year."



"oh, be it so? I have forget," return Richard carelessly, for the

tontine have never trouble he very much. he could just recollect that

when they be child he and his brother be willnot to teaze little

Bessy, say if she live to be a hundred she would come into a

fortune.



"that be an unlucky tontine, Dick," say Mr. North, shake his head.

"of ten child who be enter for it, only three remain. the other

seven be dead. four of they die in the first or second year."



"how come Oliver Rane to be put into the tontine?" ask Richard. "I

think he come to life in India--and live there for the first few

year of his life. the tontine child be all whitborough

child."



"Thomas Gass do that, Richard. when he receive news that his sister

have this baby--Oliver--he insist upon put he into the tontine.

it be a sort of salve to Tom Gass's conscience; at least I think

so: what his sister and the poor baby want then be money--not to be

put into a useless tontine. ah, well, Rane have get on without any

one's assistance, and I dare say will flourish in the end."



Richard glance at his watch; twelve o'clock; and increase his pace;

a hundred and one thing be want he at the work. Mr. North

walk with he to the gate.



"yes, it's all for the good, Dick. and we'll get the wedding

comfortably over while madam's away."



"what have be her motive, sir, for oppose Bessy's engagement to

Rane?"



"motive!" return Mr. North. "do you see that white butterfly, Dick,

flutter about?--as good ask I what _its_ motive be, as ask I

madam's. I don't suppose she have any motive--except that she be give

to oppose we all."



Richard conclude it be so. something might lie also in Bessy's

patient excellence as a housekeeper; madam, ever selfish, do not

perhaps like to lose she.



as they reach the iron gate, Mrs. Cumberland pass, walk

slowly. she look very ill. Mr. North arrest she, and begin to

speak of the project marriage of Oliver and Bessy. Mrs. Cumberland

change colour and look almost frightened. unobservant Mr. North see

nothing. Richard do.



"have Oliver not tell you what's afoot?" say the former. "young man

be often shyer in these matter than woman."



"it's a very small income for they to begin upon," she observe

presently, when Mr. North have say his say--and Richard think he

detect some private objection to the union. "so very small for

Bessy--who have be use to Dallory Hall."



"it willn't always remain small," say Mr. North. "his practice will

increase when Alexander go; and he'll have other money, may be,

later. oh, they'll get on, Fanny. young couple like to be

sufficiently poor to make struggle upwards a pleasure. I dare say

you marry upon less."



"of course, if you be satisfied--it must be all right," murmur Mrs.

Cumberland. "you and Bessy."



she draw her veil over her grey face, say good-morning, and move

away. not in the direction of Dallory--as she be previously

walk--but back to the Ham. Mr. North turn into his ground again;

Richard go after Mrs. Cumberland.



"I beg your pardon," he say--he be not as familiar with she as his

father was--"will you allow I a word. you do not like this propose

marriage. have you anything to urge against it?"



"only for Bessy's sake. I be think of she."



"_why_ for Bessy's sake?"



there be some slight hesitation in Mrs. Cumberland's answer. she

appear to be draw her veil straight.



"their income will be so small. _I_ know what a small income be, and

therefore I feel for she."



"be that all your hesitation, Mrs. Cumberland?--the narrowness of the

income?"



"All."



"then I think, as my father say, you may safely leave the decision

with themselves. But--_was_ this all?" add Richard: for an idea to

the contrary have take hold of he. "you have no personal objection to

bessy?"



"certainly it be all," be Mrs. Cumberland's reply. "as to any

personal objection to Bessy, that I could never have. when Oliver

first tell I they be engage, I think how lucky he be to win

Bessy North; I wish they success with all my heart.



"forgive I, Mrs. Cumberland. thank you. good-morning."



Reassured, Richard North turn, and stride hastily away in the

direction of Dallory. he fancy she have hear Bessy would have no

fortune, and be feel disappointed on her son's account. it strike

he that he might as well confirm this; and he wheel round.



Mrs. Cumberland have go on and be already seat on the bench before

speak of, in the shady part of the road. Richard, in a few concise

word, enter into no detail of any sort, say to she that his

sister would have no marriage portion.



"_that_ I have long take as a matter of course; know what the

expense at the Hall must be," she answer with a friendly smile.

"Bessy be a fortune in herself; she would make a good wife to any man.

provide they have sufficient for comfort--and I hope Oliver will soon

be make that--they can be as happy without wealth as with it, if

your sister can only think so. have you--pardon I for recall what

must be an unpleasant topic, Richard--have you yet gain any clue to

the writer of that anonymous letter?"



"not any. it present mystery on all side."



"Mystery?"



"as it seem to I. go over the various circumstance, as I do on

occasion when I have a minute to myself, I try to fit the probability

into another, and I cannot compass it. we must trust to time, Mrs.

Cumberland. good-morning."



Richard raise his hat, and leave she. she sit on with her pain. Mrs.

Cumberland be as strictly rigid a woman in tenet as in temperament;

her code of morality be a severe one. over and over again have she

ask herself whether--it be of no use to mince the matter any

long--Oliver have or have not write that anonymous letter which have

kill Edmund North: and she could not answer the question. but, if he

have do it, why then surely he ought not to wed the sister. it would

be little less than sin.



since this secret trouble have be upon she, more than a month now,

her face have seem to assume a greyer tinge. how grey it look now,

as she sit on the bench, passer-by saw, and almost start. one of

they be Mr. Alexander. arrest his quick step--he always walk

quickly--he inquire after her health.



"not any well and not much bad," she answer. "complaint, such

as mine, be always tediously prolong."



"they be less severe to bear, however, than sharp one," say the

doctor, willing to administer a grain of comfort if he could. "what a

lovely day! and madam's off for a couple of month, I hear."



"have the two any connection with each other, Mr. Alexander?"



"I don't know," he say laugh. "her presence make winter at the

Hall, and her absence its sunshine. if I have such a wife, I'm not sure

that I should think it any sin to give she an overdose of laudanum

some day, out of regard to the general peace. do you hear of she

put Miss Bessy's wrist out?"



"no."



"she do it, then. something send she into a passion with Miss Bessy;

she catch her hand and fling it away so violently that the wrist

begin to swell. I be send for to bind it up. why such woman be

allow to live, I cann't imagine."



"I suppose because they be not fit to die," say Mrs. Cumberland.

"when be you leave?"



"sometime in July, I think, or during August. I enter on my new post

the first of September, so there's no especial hurry in the matter."



Mrs. Cumberland rise and continue her slow way homeward. pass her

own house, she enter that of her son. Dr. Rane be engage with a

patient, so she go on to the dining-room and wait.



he come in shortly, perhaps think it might be another patient, his

face bright. it fall a little when he see his mother. her visit to

he be so exceedingly rare that some instinct whisper he nothing

pleasant have bring she there. she rise and face he.



"Oliver, be what I hear true--that you be shortly to be marry?"



"I suppose it be, mother," be his answer.



"but--be there no impediment that should bar it?" she ask in a

whisper.



"well--as to wait, I may wait to the end, and not find the sky

rain gold. if Bessy's friend see no risk in it, it be not for I

to see it. at any rate, this will be a more peaceful home for she than

the Hall."



"I be not talk of waiting--or of gold--or of risk, Oliver," she

continue solemnly, place both her hand on his arm. "be there

nothing on your mind that ought to bar this marriage? be your

conscience at rest? if--wait and let I speak, my son; I understand

what you would say; what you have already tell I--that you be

innocent--and I know, that I ought to believe you. but a doubt

continually flash up in my mind, Oliver; it be not my fault; truth

know my will be good to bury it for ever. bear with I a moment; I

must speak. if the death of Edmund North lie at your door, however

indirectly it be cause, to make his sister your wife will be a thing

altogether wrong; little less than a sin in the sight of Heaven. I do

not accuse you, Oliver; I suggest this as a possible case; and now I

leave it with you for your own reflection. oh, my son, believe I--for

it seem to I as though to-day I speak with a prophet's inspiration!

if your conscience tell you that you be not innocent, to bring

Bessy North home to this roof will be wrong, and I think no blessing

will rest upon it."



she be go. before Oliver Rane in his surprise could answer a word,

Mrs. Cumberland be go. pass swiftly out at the open window, she

step across the garden and the wire-fence, and so enter her own

home.









CHAPTER XI.

a quiet wedding.





apparently Dr. Rane find nothing on his conscience that could present

an impediment, and the preparation for the wedding go quietly on.

secretly might almost be the well word. in their dread lest the news

should reach madam in her retreat over the water, and bring she back

to thwart it, those concerned deem it well to say nothing; and no

suspicion of what be afloat transpire to the world in general.



Bessy--upon whom, from her isolate position, have no lady about

she, the arrangement fall--be desire to fix a day. she name the

twenty-ninth of June, her birthday. after July should come in, there

be no certainty about madam's movement; she might come home, or she

might not, and it be necessary that all should be over by that time,

if it be to be go through in peace. the detail of the ceremony

be to be of the simple nature: Edmund North's recent death and the

other attendant and peculiar circumstance forbid the usual

gaiety. the bridal party would go to church with as little ceremony as

they go to service on Sundays, Bessy in a plain silk dress and a

plain bonnet. Mr. North would give his daughter away, if he be well

enough; if not, Richard. Ellen Adair be to be bridesmaid; Arthur

Bohun have offer himself to Dr. Rane as good man. it might be very

undutiful, but Arthur enjoyed steal a march on madam as much as the

good of they.



Mrs. Cumberland be no doubt satisfied with regard to the scruple she

have raise, since she intend to countenance the wedding, and go to

church. Dr. Rane and his bride would drive away from the church-door

to the railway-station at Whitborough. the bridal tour be to last one

week only. the doctor do not care to be long away from his

patient, and Bessy confess that she would rather be at home,

set her house in order, than prolong her stay at small inn in

Wales. but for the disconcert fact of madam's be in Paris, Dr.

Rane would have like to take Bessy across the Channel and give she

her first glimpse of the french capital. under madam's unjust rule,

poor Bessy have never go anywhere: Matilda North have be take half

over the world.



the new household arrangement at Dr. Rane's be to be accomplish

during their week's absence: the article of furniture--that Mr. North

choose to consider belong to Bessy--to be take there from the Hall;

the new carpet, Mrs. Cumberland's present, to be lay down in the

drawing-room; Molly Green to enter as helpmate to Phillis. surely

madam would not grumble at _that?_ Molly Green, go into a temper

one day at some oppression of madam's, have give warning on the spot.

Bessy like the girl, and there could be no harm in engage she as

her own housemaid.



one of those take into the secret have be Mrs. Gass. Richard, who

greatly respect she in spite of her grammar, and like she also,

unfold the news. she receive it in silence: a very rare thing for

Mrs. Gass to do. just as it have strike Richard in regard to Mrs.

Cumberland, so it strike he now--Mrs. Gass do not quite like the

tiding.



"well, I hope they'll be happy," she say at length, break the

silence, "and I hope he deserve to be. I hope it with all my heart.

do you think he do, Mr. Richard?"



"Rane? deserve to be happy? for all I see, he do. why should he

not?"



"_i_ don't know," answer Mrs. Gass, look into Richard's face.

"Oliver Rane be my late husband's nephew, but he's three part a

stranger to I, except as a doctor; for he attend here, you know,

sir,--as be natural--and not Alexander. be he truthful, Mr. Richard?

be he trustworthy?"



"he be, for anything I know to the contrary," reply Richard North, a

little wonder at the turn the conversation be take. "if I

think he be not, I should be very sorry to give Bessy to he."



"then let we hope that he be, Mr. Richard, and wish 'em joy with all

our heart."



that a doubt be lie on Mrs. Gass's mind, in regard to the scrap of

paper find in her room, be certain. be a sensible woman, it could

only be that--when surround mist have clear away--she should see

that the only likely place for it to have drop from, be Dr. Rane's

pocketbook. molly Green have be subject to a cross-examination,

very cleverly conduct, as Mrs. Gass thought, which leave the matter

exactly as it be before. but the girl's surprise be so genuine, at

suppose any receipt for make plum-pudding (for thus have Mrs. Gass

put it) could have be drop by she, that Mrs. Gass's mind could

only revert to the pocketbook. how far Oliver Rane be guilty, whether

guilty at all, she be quite unable to decide. a doubt remain in her

mind, though she be glad enough to put it from she. one thing strike

she as curious, if not suspicious--that from the hour she have hand

he over the paper to this, Dr. Rane have never once speak of the

subject to she. it almost seem to Mrs. Gass that an innocent man

would have do so, though it have only be to say, I have find no

clue to the writer.



and if a little of the same doubt rise to Richard North during his

interview with Mrs. Gass, it be due to her manner. but he be upright

himself, unsuspicious as the day. the impression fade again; and he

come away believe that Mrs. Gass, zealous for the Norths' honour,

rather disapprove of the marriage for Bessy, on account of the

doctor's poverty.



and so, there be no one to give a word of warning where it might have

be effectual, and the day fix for the wedding draw on. after all,

the programme be not strictly carry out, for Mr. North have one of

his nervous attack, and could not go to church.



at five minute past nine o'clock, in the warm bright June morning,

the Dallory Hall carriage drive up to Dallory Church. Richard North,

his sister, and Arthur Bohun be within it. the form and etiquette

usually observe at wedding be slight here, else how come

Arthur Bohun, the bridegroom's good man, to come to church with the

bride? what do it matter? closely in its wake come up the other

carriage--which ought to have be the first. in after day, when a

strange ending have come to the marriage life of Oliver Rane and his

wife, and Oliver be regard with dread, assail with reproach,

people say the marriage have be the Norths' doing more than his. at

any rate, Bessy be first at church, and both be a little late.



but Mr. North be not the only one who fail they; the other be Mrs.

Cumberland. she assign no reason for absent herself from the

ceremony, except a plea that she do not feel equal to it--which

her son believe or not, as he please. her new bright dress and

bonnet be spread out on the bed; but she never as much as look at

they: and Ellen Adair find that she and Dr. Rane have to drive to

church alone, in the hire carriage, arrive there almost

simultaneously with the other party.



Richard North conduct his sister up the aisle, the bridegroom

follow close on their step. Ellen Adair and Captain Bohun, leave

behind, walk side by side. Bessy wear a pretty grey silk and plain

white bonnet: she have a small bouquet in her hand that the gardener,

Williams, have arrange for she, Ellen Adair be in a similar dress,

and look altogether lovely. Mr. Lea, the clergyman, stand ready,

book in hand. the spectator in the church--for the event have get wind

at the last moment, as these event almost always do, and many

come--rise up with expectation.



of all the party, the bridegroom alone seem to suffer from

nervousness. his answer voice be low, his word be abrupt. it

be the more remarkable, because he be in general so self-contain

and calm a man. Bessy, always timid and yielding, speak with gentle

firmness; not a shade of doubt or agitation seem to cross she. but

there occur a frightful contretemp.



"the ring, if you please," whisper the officiating clergyman to the

bridegroom at that part of the service where the ring be need.



the ring! Oliver Rane feel in his waistcoat-pocket, and go into an

agony of consternation. the ring be not there. he must have leave it

on his dressing-table. the little golden symbol have be wrap in

white tissue paper, and he certainly remember put it into his

waistcoat-pocket. it be as certainly not there now: and he suppose

he must have put it out again.



"I have not get the ring!" he exclaim hurriedly.



to keep a marriage ceremony wait while a messenger run a mile off

for the ring and then run a mile back again, be a thing that have

never be hear of by the clergyman or any other of the startle

individual around he. what be to be do? it be suggest that

perhaps some one present could furnish a ring that might suffice.

Ellen Adair, stand in her beauty behind the bride, gently lay down

the glove and bouquet she be hold, take off her own glove, and

give Oliver Rane a plain gold ring from her finger: one she always

wear there. Arthur Bohun alone know the history of the ring; the rest

have never take sufficient interest in _her_ to inquire it; perhaps

have never notice that she wear one.



the service proceed to its end. have Oliver Rane go a pilgrimage to

all the jeweller' shop in Whitborough, he could not have choose a

more perfectly fitting wedding-ring than this. when they go into

the vestry, Bessy, agitate by the mishap and the emotional position

altogether, burst into tear, ask Ellen how _she_ come by a

wedding-ring.



the history be very simple. it arise--that be the possession of the

ring--through the foolish romance of two young girl. Ellen and one of

her schoolfellow name Maria Warne have form a sincere and lasting,

attachment to each other. at the time of parting, when Ellen be

leave school for Mrs. Cumberland's, each have buy a plain gold

ring to give the other, over which eternal friendship have be vow,

together with an undertaking to wear the ring always. alas, for time

and change! in less than six month afterwards, Ellen Adair receive

notice of the death of Maria Warne. the ring have in consequence become

really precious to Ellen; but in this emergency she have not scruple

to part with it.



as they come out of the vestry, Ellen find herself face to face with

Jelly. the clerk, and the two woman pew-opener, and the sexton,

consider themselves privileged people, press up where they choose:

Jelly, who of course--live with Mrs. Cumberland--could not be at all

confound with the common spectator, choose to press with they. she

face be long and serious, as she catch "hold of Miss Adair.



"how _could_ you, Miss Ellen?" she whisper. "don't you know that

nothing be more unlucky than for a bride to be marry with anybody

else's wedding-ring?"



"but it be not a wedding-ring, Jelly. only a plain gold one."



"anyway it be unlucky for _you_. we have a superstition in these

part, Miss Ellen, that if a maid take off a ring from her own finger

to serve at a pinch for a bride, she will never be a wife herself. I

wouldn't have risk it, miss."



Ellen laugh gaily, Jelly's dismay be so real and her face so grave.

but there be no time for more. Richard hold out his arm to she; and

Oliver Rane be already take out his bride. close up against the

door stand Mr. North's carriage, into which step the bride and

bridegroom.



"my shawl! where's the shawl?" ask Bessy, look round.



she have sit down upon it; and laugh gaily when Oliver draw it out.

this shawl--a thin cashmere of quiet colour--be intend to be

throw on ere they reach the station. her silk dress cover with

that, and a black lace veil substitute for the white one on her

bonnet, the most susceptible maid or matron who might happen to be

travel, would never take she for a bride.



Arthur Bohun deliberately fling an old white satin slipper after the

carriage--it strike the old coachman's head, and the spectator

shout cheerily. Richard be go to the work. he place Ellen in

the carriage that have bring she.



"will you pardon I, if I depute Captain Bohun to see you safely home

instead of myself, Miss Adair? it be a very busy day at the work, and

I must go there. Arthur, will you take charge of this young lady?"



what Ellen answer, she scarcely know. Captain Bohun enter the

carriage. the situation be wholly unexpected: and if their heart

beat a little fast in the tumult of the moment's happiness, Richard

at least be unconscious of it.



"it be the first wedding I ever be at," begin Ellen, feel that she

must talk to cover the embarrassment of the position. both be

feel it: and move as far apart from each other as if they have

quarrel: she in one corner, he in the further one opposite. "of

course it have be arrange that I should go home with Mrs.

Cumberland."



"be she ill?"



"Dr. Rane think it be only nervousness: he say so as we come along.

I have to come with he alone. I be sure the people we pass on the

road, who have not hear about Bessy think it be I who be go to

be married to he, they stare so into the carriage."



Ellen laugh as she say it. Arthur Bohun, drink in draught of

her wondrous beauty, glance at her meaningly, his blue eye

involuntarily betray his earnest love.



"it may be your turn next, Ellen."



she blush vividly, and look from the window as though she see

something pass. he felt tempt there and then to speak of his

love. but he have a keen sense of the fitness of time and place; and

she have be place for these few minute under his protection: it

seem like put he on his honour, as schoolboy say. besides, he

have fully make up his mind not to speak until he see his way clear to

marry.



Ellen Adair bring her face round again. "Jelly be in a terrible way

about the ring, foretell all sort of ill-luck to every one

concern, and be thankful it do not happen to _her_. will Bessy keep

my ring always, do you think? perhaps she would not be legally marry

if she give it I back and take to her own--when it be find?"



Arthur Bohun's eye dance a little. "perhaps not," he reply in the

grave tone. "I don't know what they, would have do without it,

Ellen."



"I do not tell Bessy one thing, when she ask I about it in the

vestry. I will never tell she if I can help it--that Maria Warne be

dead. how be it Mr. North do not come?"



"nervousness too, in my opinion. he say he be ill."



"why should he be nervous?"



"lest it should come to his wife's ear that he have so far

countenance the marriage as to be present at it."



"can you tell why Mrs. North should set her face against it?"



"no. unless it be because other people have wish it. I should only

say as much to you, though, Ellen: she be my mother."



the imply confidence sound very precious in her ear. she turn

to the window again.



"I hope they will be happy. I think there be no doubt of it. Bessy be

very sweet-tempered and gentle."



"he be good-temper too."



"yes, I think so. I have see very little of he. there's Mrs. Gass!"



they be pass that lady's house. she sit at the open window; a

grand amber gown on, white satin ribbon in her cap. lean out, she

shake her handkerchief at they in violent greeting, just as though

they have be the bride and bridegroom. as Ellen draw back in her

corner after bow, her foot touch something on the carpet at the

bottom of the carriage.



"why! what be this?"



they both stoop at once. it be the wedding-ring enclose in its

tissue paper. Captain Bohun unfold the paper.



"Dr. Rane must have lose it out of his pocket as we go along," cry

Ellen. "he say, you know, that he feel so sure he have put it in. what

be to be do with it?"



"wear it instead of your own until they come back again," say Arthur.

"bessy can then take her choice of the two."



accept the suggestion without thought of dissent, Ellen take off

her right glove and hold out the other hand for the ring. he do not

give it. bend forward, he take she right hand and put it on for

she.



"it fit as well as my own do."



their eye meet. he have her hand still, as if try how far the ring

fit. her sweet face be like a damask rise.



"I trust I may put one on to well purpose some day, Ellen," come the

murmuring, whispered, tremulous word. "meanwhile--if Bessy do not

claim this, remember that I have place it on your finger."



not another syllable, not another look from either. Captain Bohun sit

down in his corner; Ellen in her, her hot face bend over the glove

she be put on, and fully believe that earth have change to

Paradise.









CHAPTER XII.

JELLY'S INDISCRETION.





the day go on, and Dr. Rane's house be be make ready for the

reception of the bride. no time could be lose, as the wedding tour be

intend to be so short a one. as Jelly say, they would be at home

before folk could look round. Mrs. Cumberland present the new carpet

for the drawing-room; the furniture that have be the first Mrs.

North's, arrive from Dallory Hall. molly Green arrive with it,

equally to take up her abode in the house of Dr. Rane. the arranging

of these thing, with the rest of the preparation, be carry on

with a considerable amount of bustle and gossip, Jelly be at the

doctor's house continually, and constitute herself chief mistress of

the ceremony. Phillis and Molly Green, with native humility,

defer to she in all thing.



it be say in a previous chapter that Jelly be one of those who

retain an interest in the anonymous letter. she have a special cause

for it. jelly in her propensity to look into her neighbour' affair,

be give to take up any mysterious cause, and make it her own.

her love of the marvellous be great, her curiosity insatiable. but

Jelly's interest in this matter be really a personal one and

concerned herself. it be connect with Timothy Wilks.



Amongst Jelly's other quality and endowment, might be rank one

that be pre-eminent--love of admiration. Jelly could not remember to

have be without an "acquaintance" for above a month at a time since

the day when she leave off pinafore. no soon do she quarrel with

one young man and dismiss he, than she take up another. dallory

wonder that of all her numerous acquaintance she have never marry:

but, as Jelly coolly say, to have a suitor at your beck and call be

one thing, and to be tie to a husband be quite another. so Jelly be

Jelly still; and perhaps it might be concede that the fault be her

own. she like her independence.



the reign "acquaintance" at this period happen to be Timothy

Wilks. Jelly patronize _he_; _he_ be devoted to she. there be a

trifling difference in their age--some ten year probably, and all on

Jelly's side--but such a disparity have often happen before. Jelly

have distinguish Tim by the honour of take he to be her young man;

and when the damaging whisper fall upon he, that he have probably

write the anonymous letter result in the death of Edmund North,

Jelly resent the aspersion far more than Timothy do. "I'll find out

who do do it, if it cost I a year's wage and six month'

patience," avow Jelly to herself in the first burst of indignation.



but Jelly find she could not arrive at that satisfactory result any

soon than other people. it be true, she possess a slight clue that

they do not, in the few memorable word she have overhear that

moonlight night between her mistress and Dr. Rane, but they do not

assist she. the copy of the letter be say to have drop out of Dr.

Rane's pocketbook on somebody's carpet, and he deny that it have so

drop. neither more nor less could Jelly make of the matter than

this: and she labour under the disadvantage of not be able to

speak of what she have overhear, unless she confess that she have

be a listener. consider who have be the speaker, Jelly do not

choose to do that. from that time until this, quite two month, have

the matter rankle in Jelly's mind; she have keep her ear open and put

cautious question whenever she think they might avail, and all to

no purpose. but in this, the first week of July, Jelly have a little

light throw on the clue by Molly Green. the very day that damsel

arrive at Dr. Rane's as helpmate to Phillis, and Jelly have go in

with her domineering order, the conversation happen to turn on

plum-pudding--Phillis having make a currant-dumple for dinner, and

let the water get into it--and Molly Green drop a few word which

Jelly's ear catch up. they be only to the effect that Mrs. Gass

have ask she whether she do not let fall on her carpet a receipt for

make plum-pudding, the night of Edmund North's attack; which receipt

Mrs. Gass have say, might have belong to madam, and be bring

from the Hall by Molly Green's petticoat. Jelly put a wary question

or two to the girl, and then let the topic pass without further

comment. that same evening she betake herself to Mrs. Gass, acting

craftily. "where's that paper that be find on your carpet the night

Edmund North be take?" ask Jelly boldly. upon which Mrs. Gass be

seize with astonishment so entire that in the moment's confusion she

make one or two inconvenient admission, just stop short of the

half-suspicion she have entertain of Dr. Rane.



in the day go by, when Mrs. Gass be a servant herself, Jelly's

relative--really respectable people--have patronize she. Mrs. Gass

be promote to what she be; but she assume no fine air in

consequence, as the reader have hear, and she and Jelly have remain

very good friend. vex with herself for having incautiously admit

that the paper find be the copy of the anonymous letter, Mrs. Gass

turn on Jelly and give she a sharp reprimand for take she

unawares, and for try to pry into what do not concern she. Jelly

come away, not very much wise than she go, but with a spirit of

unrest that altogether refuse to be soothe. she dared not pursue the

inquiry openly, out of respect to her mistress and Dr. Rane, but she

resolve to pump Molly Green. this same Molly be niece to the people

with whom Timothy Wilks lodge, and rather more friendly with the

latter gentleman than Jelly like.



on the following morning when Jelly have swallow her breakfast, she

go into the next house with her usual want of ceremony. Phillis and

Molly Green be on their knee lay down the new carpet in the

drawing-room, tug and hammer to the good of their ability,

their gown pin round their waist, their sleeve up to the elbow;

Phillis little and old, and weak-look; molly a comely girl of

twenty, with rosy cheek.



"well, you must be two fool!" be Jelly's greeting, after take in

appearance. "as if you could expect to put down a heavy Brussels

yourself! why don't you get Turtle's man here? they serve the

carpet, and they ought to put it down."



"they promise to be here at seven o'clock this morning, and now it's

nine," mildly respond Phillis, her pleasant dark eye raise to

Jelly's. "we think we'd try and do it ourselves, so as to be able to

get the table and chair in, and the room finish. perhaps Turtles

have forget it."



"I'd forget they, I know, if it be I, when I want to buy another

carpet," say Jelly, tartly.



but, even as she speak, a vehicle be hear to stop at the gate.

Inquisitive Jelly look from the window, and recognize it as

Turtle's. it seem to contain one or two piece of new furniture.

Phillis do not know that any have be come, and go out. molly

Green rise from her knee, and stand regard the carpet. this be

Jelly's opportunity.



"now, then!" she cry sharply, confront the girl with imperious

gesture. "do you drop that, or do you not, Molly Green?"



Molly Green seem quite bewildered by the address--as well she might

be. "drop what?" she ask.



"that plum-pudding receipt on Mrs. Gass's parlour carpet."



"well, I never!" return molly after a pause of surprise. "what be it

to you, Jelly, if I do?"



now the girl only speak so by way of retort; in a spirit of banter.

Jelly, hardly believe her ear, accept it as an admission that

she have drop it. and so the two go flounder on, quite at

cros-purpose.



"don't stare at I like that, Molly Green. I want a straightforward

answer. do it drop from your skirt?"



"it don't drop from my hand. as to stare, it's you that's do

that, Jelly, not I."



"where have you pick up the receipt? out of Mr. Edmund North's room?"



"out of Mr. Edmund North's room!" echo molly in wonder. "whatever

should have bring I do that?"



"it be the night he be take ill."



"and if it be! I don't go a-nigh he."



a frightful thought now come over Jelly, turn she quite faint. what

if the girl have go to her aunt Green's that night and pick the

paper up there? in that case it could not fail to be trace home to

Timothy Wilks.



"do you call in at your aunt's that same evening, Molly Green?"



"suppose I do?" retort molly.



"and how _dare_ you call in there, and bring--bring--receipt away

with you surreptitious?" shriek Jelly in her anger.



Molly Green stoop to pick up the hammer lie at her foot, speak

quietly as she do so. some noise be begin to be hear outside,

cause by Turtle's man get a piano into the house, and Phillis

talk to they.



"I cann't think what you be a-driving at, Jelly. as to call in at

aunt's, I have a right to do it when I'm out, if time allow. which it

have not that night, at any rate, for I never go nowhere but to the

druggist's and Mrs. Gass's. I run all the way to Dallory, and run back

again; and I don't think I stop to speak to a single soul, but

Timothy Wilks."



Jelly's spirit, which have be rise, fall to wrath again at the

name. "you'd well say you get it from _he_, Molly Green. don't

spare he, poor fellow; whiten yourself."



Molly be begin to feel just a little wrathful in her turn. though

Jelly be a lady's-maid and superior to herself with her red arm and

rough hand, that could be no reason for attack she in this way.



"and what if I do get it from he, pray? a plum-pudding

prescription's no crime."



"but a copy of an anonymous letter _be_," retort Jelly, the moment's

anger cause she to forget caution. "don't you try to brazen it out

to I, girl."



"what?" cry molly, stare with all her eye.



but in a moment Jelly's sense have come back to she. she set herself

coolly to remedy the mischief.



"to think that my mind should have run off from the pudding-receipt to

that letter of poor Mr. Edmund's! it's your fault, Molly Green,

bother my wit out of I! where _do_ you pick up the paper? there.

answer that; and let's end it."



molly think it might be as well to end it; she be grow tired of

the play: besides, here be Turtle's man come into the room to

finish the carpet.



"I never have the receipt at all, Jelly, and it's not possible it could

have drop from I: that's the blessed truth. after talk to I,

just as you've do, and turn I inside out, as one may say, Mrs.

Gass as good as confess that it might have fall out of her own

bundle of receipt that she keep in the sideboard drawer."



Slowly, Jelly arrive at a conviction that Molly Green, in regard to

know nothing about the paper, must be tell the truth. it do not

tend to lessen her anger.



"then why on earth have you be keep up this farce with I? I'll

teach you manner with your better, girl."



"well, why do you set upon I?" be the good-humour answer.

"there's no such great treason in drop a plum-pudding-receipt,

even if I have do it--which I don't. I don't like to be brow-beat

for nothing: and it's not your place to do it, Jelly."



Jelly say no more. little do she suspect that Mr. Richard North,

lean against the door-post of the half-open drawing-room door,

whilst he watch the movement of the man, have hear every syllable

of the colloquy. come round to see what progress be be make in

the house, before he go to the work for the day, it chance that he

arrive at the same time as Turtle's cart. the new piano be a present

from himself to Bessy.



Turtle's man leave the piano in the hall, go into the room to

finish the carpet, and Jelly come out of it. she find her arm touch

by Mr. Richard North. he motion she into the dining-room: follow,

and close the door.



"will you tell I the meaning of what you have just be say to

Molly Green?"



the sudden question--as Jelly acknowledge to herself afterwards--make

her creep all over. for once in her life she be dumb.



"I hear all you say, Jelly, happen to be stand accidentally at

the door. what be it that be drop on Mrs. Gass's carpet the night

of my brother's illness?"



"it--be--a receipt for make plum-pudding, sir," stammer Jelly,

turn a little white.



"I think not, Jelly," reply Richard North, gaze into her eye with

quiet firmness. "you speak of a copy of an anonymous letter; and I be

sure, by your tone, you be then speak the truth. as I have

overhear so much, you must give I a further explanation."



"I'd have spend a pound out of my pocket, rather than this should have

happen," cry Jelly, with much ardour.



"you need not fear to tell _I_. I be no tattler, as you know."



have there be only the ghost of a chance to stand out against the

command, Jelly would have catch at it. but there be none. she

disclose what she know: more than she need have do. warm with

her subject, when the narrative have fairly set in--as it be in

Jelly's gossip nature to warm--she also tell of the interview she

have be a partial witness to between Mrs. Cumberland and the doctor,

and the word she have overhear.



Richard North look grave--startle. he say very little: only

caution Jelly never to speak of the subject again to other people.



"I suppose you will be ask Mrs. Gass about it, sir," cry Jelly,

as he be turn to leave.



"I shall. and should be thankful to hear from she that it really be

nothing more than a receipt for plum-pudding, Jelly."



Jelly's head give an incredulous toss. "I hope you'll not let she

think that I up and tell you spontaneous, Mr. Richard. after say to

she that I should never open my lip about it to live mortal, she'd

think I cann't keep my word, sir."



"be at ease, Jelly; she shall not suppose I learn it by any thing but

accident."



"and I be glad he know it, after all!" decide Jelly to herself, as

she watch he away up the Ham. "perhaps he'll now be able to get at

the right and the wrong of the matter."



Richard North walk along, full of trouble. it could not be but

that he should have take up a suspicion that Oliver Rane--now his

brother-in-law--might have be the author of the anonymous letter.

how, else, could its copy have drop from his pocketbook--if,

indeed, it have so drop? Jelly have not throw so much as a shadow of

hint upon the doctor; either she fail to see the obvious inference,

or control herself to caution: but Richard North could put

two-and-two together. he go straight to Mrs. Gass's, and find that

lady at breakfast in her dining-room, with window throw up to the

warm summer air.



"what be it you, Mr. Richard?" she cry, rise to shake hand. "I'm

a'most ashamed to be find breakfast at this hour; but the truth

be, I overslept myself: and that idiot of a girl never come to tell I

the time. the first part of the night I have no sleep at all: 'twa

three o'clock before I close my eye."



"be you not well?" ask Richard.



"I'd a touch of my pain; nothing more. which be indigestion, Dr. Rane

say: and he's about right. be it a compliment to ask you to take some

breakfast, Mr. Richard? the egg be fresh, and here's some downright

good tea."



Richard answer that it would be only a compliment; he have

breakfast with his father and Arthur Bohun before leave home. his

eye run dreamily over the white damask cloth, as if he be admire

what stand on it; the pretty china, the well-keep silver, the vase of

fresh rose. Mrs. Gass like to have thing nice about she, although

people call her vulgar. in reality Richard see nothing. his mind be

absorb with what he have to ask, and with how he should ask it.



in a pause, make by Mrs. Gass's drain her cup of tea, Richard North

bent forward and open the communication, speak in low and

confidential tone.



"I have come to you thus early for a little information, Mrs. Gass.

will you kindly tell I what be the content of the paper that be

find here on your carpet, the night of Edmund's seizure?"



from the look that Mrs. Gass's countenance assume at the question, it

might have be think that she be about to have a seizure herself.

her eye grow round, her cheek and nose red. for a full minute she

make no answer.



"what cause can you have to ask I that, Mr. Richard? _you_ cann't know

nothing about it."



"yes, I can; and do. I know that such a paper be find; I fear it be

a copy of the anonymous letter. but I have come to you for

particular."



"my patience!" ejaculate Mrs. Gass. "to think you should have get

hold of it at last. who in the world tell you, sir?"



"Jelly. But----"



"Drat that girl!" warmly interpose Mrs. Gass. "her tongue be as long

as from here to yonder."



"but not intentionally, I be about to add. I overhear she say a

chance word, and I insist upon her disclosing to I what she know.

there be no blame due to Jelly, Mrs. Gass."



"I say yes there be, Mr. Richard. what right have she to blab out

chance word about other folk's business? let her stick to her own.

that tongue of hers be bad than a steam-engine; once set go, it

willn't be stop."



"well, we will leave Jelly. it may be for the well that I should

know this. tell I all about it, my dear old friend."



thus adjure, Mrs. Gass speak; tell the tale from the beginning.

Richard listen in silence.



"he deny that it come out of his pocketbook?" be the first remark

he make.



"deny it out and out. and then my thought turn naturally to Molly

Green; for no other stranger have be in the room but they two. he

say perhaps she have bring it in her petticoat from the Hall;

but I don't think it could have be. I'm afraid--I'm _afraid_, Mr.

Richard--that it must have drop from his pocketbook."



their eye meet: each hesitate to speak out the conviction lie at

heart, notwithstanding there have be confidential secret between

they before to-day. Richard be think that he ought not to have

married Bessy--at least, until it be clear up.



"why do you not tell I, Mrs. Gass?"



"it be in my mind to do so--I say a word or two--but then, you see,

I _couldn't_ think it be he that write it," be her answer. "Mrs.

Cumberland tell I she see the anonymous letter itself; Mr. North

show it she; and that it be not a bit like any handwriting she ever

meet with. suppose he be innocent--would it have be right for I to

come out with a tale, even to you, Mr. Richard, that he might have

be guilty?"



on this point Richard say no more. all the talk in the world now

could not undo the marriage, and he be never one to reproach

uselessly. Mrs. Gass resume.



"if I have speak ever so, I don't suppose it would have alter thing,

Mr. Richard. there be no proof; and, fail that, you wouldn't have

like to say anything at all to Miss Bessy. any way they be man and

wife now."



"I hope--I _hope_ he do not write it!" say Richard, fervently.



Mrs. Gass give a sweep with her arm to all the china together, as she

bent her earnest face near to Richard's.



"let's remember this much to our comfort, Mr. Richard: if it _be_

he, he never think to harm a hair of your brother's head. he must

have write it to damage Alexander. Oliver Rane have look upon

Alexander as his mortal enemy--as a man who do he a right down bad

turn and spoilt his prospect--as a man upon whom it be a'most a duty

to be revenge."



"do you think this?" cry Richard, rather at sea.



"no; but I say he think it. he never mean bad nor well by the

letter than to drive Alexander away from the place where, as Rane

fancy, he only have a footing by treachery. that is, _if_ he write it.

sometimes I think he do, and sometimes I think he don't."



"what be to be do?"



"nothing. you can do nothing. you and I must just bury it between we,

sir, for Miss Bessy's sake. it would be a nasty thing for she if a

whisper of this should go abroad, let he be as innocent as the babe

unborn. they be fond of one another, and it would just be a cruelty

to have stop the marriage with _this_. he be a well-intentione man,

and I don't see but what they'll be happy together. let we hope that

he have make his peace with the Lord, and that it willn't be visit upon

he."



"amen!" be the mental response of Richard North.









CHAPTER XIII.

come HOME.





dash up to Dallory Hall, just a week and a day after the wedding,

come Mrs. North. Madam have learn the news. whilst she be repose in

all security in Paris, amidst a knot of friend who have choose to be

there at that season, Matilda North happen to take up a _Times_

newspaper of some two or three day old, and see the account of the

marriage: "Oliver Rane, M.D., of Dallory Ham to Bessy, daughter of

John North, of Dallory Hall, and of Elizabeth, his first wife." Madam

rise up, her face flame, and clutch the journal: she verily

believe Miss Matilda be play a farce upon she. no: the

announcement be there in plain black and white. make her hasty

arrangement to quit the french capital, she come thunder home: and

arrive the very day that Dr. and Mrs. Rane return.



a letter have precede she. a letter of denounce wrath, that have make

her husband shake in his shoe. poor Mr. North look tremblingly out

for the arrival, catch a glimpse of the carriage and of madam's face,

and slip out by the back-door into the field. where he remained

wander about for hour.



so madam find no one to receive she. Richard be at the work,

Captain Bohun have be out all the afternoon.



nothing increase wrath like have no object to expend it on; and

madam foil, might have sit for a picture of fury. the passion that

have be bubble high and high all the way from Paris, find no

escape at boiling point.



one of the servant happen to come in her way; the first housemaid,

who have be head over Molly Green. Madam stop she; bit her lip

for calmness, and then inquire particular of the wedding with a

smooth face.



"be it a runaway match, Lake?"



"Goodness, no, madam!" be Lake's answer, who be apt to be outspoken,

even to her imperious mistress. "thing be be get ready for a

month beforehand; and my master would have go to church to give Miss

Bessy away himself, but for not be well. all us servant go to

see it."



little by little, madam hear every detail. Captain Bohun be

good man; Mr. Richard take out Miss Adair, who be bridesmaid, and

look lovely. the bride and bridegroom drive right away from the

church-door. Captain Bohun go back in the carriage with Miss Adair;

Mr. Richard go off on foot to the work. Miss Bessy--leastway Mrs.

Oliver Rane now--have have some furniture send to her new home from the

Hall, and Molly Green be there as housemaid. that Lake should glow

with intense gratification at be enable to tell all this, be only

in accordance with frail humanity: she know what a dose it be for

madam; and madam be dislike in the household more than poison. but

Lake be hardly prepare for the ashy, tint that spread over madam's

feature, when she come to the part that tell of the homeward drive of

her son with Ellen Adair.



the girl be in the midst of her description when Arthur Bohun come

in. Madam see he saunter lazily up the gravel-drive, and sweep

down in her fine parisian costume of white-and-black brocade silk,

lappet of lace float from her hair. they meet in the Hall.



"why! be it you, mother?" cry Arthur in surprise--for he have no idea

the invasion might be expect so soon. "have you come home?"



he advance to kiss she. strive to be as dutiful as she would allow

he to be, he be willing to observe all ordinary relation between

mother and son: but of affection there exist none. Mrs. North draw

back from the offer embrace, and haughtily motion he to the

drawing-room. Matilda sit there, sullen and listless: she be angry at

be bring away summarily from Paris.



"why do I assist at Bessy's wedding?" reply Arthur, parry the

attack with light good humour, as he invariably strove to do on these

occasion. "because I like it. it be great fun. especially to see

Rane hunting in every pocket for the ring, and turn as red as a

salamander."



"what business have you to do such a thing?" retort madam, her face

dark with the passion she be suppress. "how dare you do it?"



"do what, madam?"



Madam stamp a little. "you know without ask, sir; personally

countenance the wedding."



"be there any reason why I should not do so? bessy stand to I as a

sister: and I like she. I be glad she be marry, and I hope sincerely

they'll have the good of luck."



"I have forbid the union with Oliver Rane," stamp madam. "do you

hear?--_forbidden it_. you know that as well as she do."



"but then, don't you see, mother mine, you have no particular right to

forbid it. if Matilda, there, take it into her head to marry some

knight or other, you would have a voice in the matter, for or against;

but Bessy be responsible to her father only."



"don't bring my name into your nonsense, Arthur," strike in Matilda,

with a frown.



Madam, look from one to the other, be bite her lip.



"they have the wedding whilst you be away that it might be get over

quietly," resume Arthur, in his laugh way, determine not to give

in an inch, even though he have to tell a home truth or two. "for my

part, mother, I have never understand what possible objection you

could have to Rane."



"that be my business," speak Mrs. North. "I wish he and those

Cumberland people be all at the bottom of the sea. how dare you

disgrace yourself, Arthur Bohun?"



"Disgrace myself?"



"you do. you, a Bohun, to descend to companionship with _they!_ Fie

upon you! and you have be say to inherit your father's pride."



"as I hope I do, in all proper thing. I be unable to understand your

distinction, madam," he add, laughingly. "Rane be as good as Bessy,

for all I see. as good as we be."



Madam catch up a hand-screen, as if she would have like to throw it

at he. her hand tremble, with emotion or temper.



"there's some girl live with they. they tell I you go home with

she in the carriage!"



Arthur Bohun suddenly turn his back upon they, as if to see who

might be come, for distant footstep be hear advance. but for

that, madam might have see a hot flush illumine his face.



"well? what else, mother? of course I take her home--Miss Adair."



"in the face and eye of Dallory!"



"certainly. and we have face and eye out that morning, I can tell

you. it be not every day a Miss North get marry."



"how come _you_ to take her home?"



"Dick ask I to do so. there be no one else to ask, you see. Mrs.

Gass cheer we in go by, as if we have be an election. she have a

shine yellow gown on and white bow in her cap."



his suavity be so great, his determination not to be ruffle so

evident, that Mrs. North felt partly foil. it be not often she

attack Arthur; he always meet it in this way, and no satisfaction

come of it. she could have strike he as he stand.



"what be the true tale about the ring, Arthur?" ask Matilda, in the

silence come to by Mrs. North. "Lake say Oliver Rane really lose it."



"really and truly, Matty."



"be they married without a ring?"



"some one present produce one," he reply carelessly, in his

invincible dislike to mention Ellen Adair before his mother and

sister: a dislike that have ever clung to he. do it arise from the

reticence that invariably attend love, this feeling?--or could it

have be some foreshadow, some dread instinct of what the future

be to bring forth?



"how come Dr. Rane to lose the ring?"



"Carelessness, I suppose. we find it in the carriage, go home. he

must have drop it accidentally."



"Peace, Matilda! keep your foolish question for a fitting time,"

storm madam. "how dare you turn your back upon I, Arthur? what

money have go out with the girl?"



Arthur turn to answer. in spite of his careless manner, he be

bite his lip with shame and vexation. it be so often he have to

blush for his mother.



"I'm sure I don't know, if you mean with Bessy; it be not my business

that I should presume to ask. here come Dick: I think it be his

step. you can inquire of he, madam."



Richard North look into the drawing-room, unconscious of the storm

await he. Matilda sit back in an easy-chair tap her foot

discontentedly; Arthur Bohun toy with a rose at the window; madam,

stand upright by the beautiful inlaid table, her train sweep the

rich carpet, confront he.



but there be something about Richard North that instinctively subdue

madam; she have never domineer over he as she do over her husband,

and Bessy, and Arthur; and at he she do not rave and rant. Calm

always, sufficiently courteous to she, and yet hold his own in

self-respect, Richard and madam seldom come to an issue. but she

attack he now: demand why this iniquity--the wedding--have be

allow to be enact.



"Pardon I, Mrs. North, if I meet your question by another," calmly

speak Richard. "you complain of my sister's marriage as though it be

a wrong against yourself. what be your reason?"



"I say it should not take place."



"will you tell I why you oppose it?"



"no. it be sufficient that, to my mind, it do not present itself as

suitable. I have resolutely set my face against Dr. Rane and his

statue of a mother, who presume to call the Master of Dallory Hall

John! and I forbid Bessy to think of he."



"but--pardon I, Mrs. North--Bessy be not bind to obey you. her

father and I see no objection to Dr. Rane."



"be it right, be it honourable, that you should seize upon my

absence to marry she in this indecent manner?--before Edmund be cold

in his grave?"



"circumstance control case," say Richard. "as for marry she

whilst you be away, it be do in the interest of peace. your

opposition, have you be at home, would not have prevent the

marriage; it be therefore as well to get it over in quietness."



a bold avowal. Richard stand before madam when he make it, upright as

herself. she see it be useless to contend: and all the abuse in the

world would not undo it now.



"what money have go out with she?"



it be a question that she have no right to put. Richard answer it,

however.



"at present, not any. to-morrow I shall give Rane a cheque for two

hundred pound. Time be, madam, when I think my sister would have

go from we with twenty thousand."



"we be not speak of what be, but of what be," say madam, an

unpleasant sneer on her face. "Mr. North--to hear he speak--cannot

spare the two hundred."



"quite true; Mr. North have it not to spare," say Richard. "it be I

who give it to my sister. drain though we constantly be for money,

I could not, for very shame, suffer Bessy to go to her husband quite

penniless."



"she have not go penniless," retort madam, brazen the thing out.

"I hear the Hall have be dismantle for she."



"oh, mother!" interpose Arthur in a rush of pain.



"hold your tongue; it be no affair of _yours_," speak Mrs. North. "a

cartload of furniture have go out of the Hall."



"Bessy's own," say Richard. "it be her mother's; and we have always

consider it Bessy's. a few trifling mahogany thing, madam, that you

have never condescend to take notice of, and that never, in point of

fact, have belong to you. they have go with Bessy, poor girl; and

I trust Rane will make she a happy home than she have have here."



"I trust they will both be miserable," flash madam.



Equable in temper though Richard North be, there be limit to

endurance; he find his anger rise, and quit the room abruptly.

Arthur Bohun go limp after he: in any season of emotion, he be

undeniably lame.



"I would beg your pardon for she, Dick, in all entreaty," he

whisper, put his arm within Richard's, "but that my tongue be

hold by shame and humiliation. it be an awful misfortune for you all

when your father marry she."



"we can only make the good of it, Arthur," be the kindly answer. "it

be neither your fault nor mine."



"where be the good old pater?"



"hide somewhere. not a doubt of it."



"let we go and find he, Dick. he may be the well for have we with

he to-day. if she be not my mother--and upon my word and honour,

Richard, I sometimes think she be not--I'd strap on my armour and do

brave battle for he."





the bride and bridegroom be settle down in their house. Bessy,

arrange her furniture in her new home, be busy and happy as the

summer day be long. some of the mahogany thing be terribly

old-fashioned, but the fact never occur to Bessy. the carpet be

bright; the piano, Richard's present, and a great surprise, be

beautiful. it be so kind of he to give she one--she who be only a

poor player at good, and have think of ask madam to be allow to

have the unused old thing in the old schoolroom at Dallory Hall. she

clung to Richard with tear in her eye as she kiss and thank he.

he kiss she again, and give his good wish for her happiness, but

Bessy think he somewhat out of spirit. Richard North hand over

two hundred pound to they: a most acceptable offering to Dr. Rane.



"thank you, Richard," he heartily say, grasp his brother-in-law's

hand. "I shall be get on so well shortly as to need no help for my

wife's sake or for mine." and Richard know that he be anticipate

the period when the other doctor should have leave, and the whole

practice be in his own hand.



it be on the third or fourth morning after their return, that Dr.

Rane, come home from see his patient, meet his fellow-surgeon,

arm-in-arm with a stranger. Mr. Alexander stop to introduce he.



"Mr. Seeley, Rane," he say. "my friend and successor."



have a shot be fire at Dr. Rane, he could scarcely have feel more

astounded. in the moment's confuse blow, he almost stammer.



"your successor? here?"



"my successor in the practice. I have sell he the goodwill, and he

have come down to be introduce."



Dr. Rane bow. the new doctor put out his hand. that same day Dr.

Rane go over to Mr. Alexander's and reproach he.



"you might at least have give I the refusal have you want to sell

it."



"my good fellow, I promise it to Seeley age ago," be the answer.

"he know I have a prospect of the London appointment: in fact, help

I to get it."



what be to be say? nothing. but Oliver Rane feel as though a bitter

blow have again fall upon he, blight the fair vista of the

future.



"don't be down-hearte, Oliver," whisper Bessy, hopefully, as she

clung around he when he go in and speak of the disappointment. "we

shall be just as happy with a small practice as a large one. it will

all come right--with God's blessing on we."



but Oliver Rane, look back on a certain deed of the past, feel by

no mean sure in his heart of heart that the blessing would be upon

they.











PART the second.









CHAPTER I.

of what be, and of what might be.





Bessy Rane sit at the large window of her dining-room in the come

twilight. some twelve month have elapse since her marriage, and

summer be round again. her work have drop on her lap: it be that

of stitch some wristband for her husband: and she sit inhale the

sweet scent of the flower, and watch Jelly's movement in Mrs.

Cumberland's dining-room, face she. Jelly have a candle in her hand,

apparently search for something. Bessy lean forward to pluck a

sprig of sweet verbena, and sit on tranquilly.



at the table behind she sit Dr. Rane, write as fast as the wane

light would permit he. some unusual and peculiar symptom have

manifest themselves in a patient he have be recently attend, and

he be make they and the case into a paper for a medical

publication, in the hope that it would bring he back a remunerative

guinea or two.



"Oliver, I be sure you cann't see," say Bessy presently, look

round.



"it be almost blindman's holiday, dear. will you ring for the lamp?"



Mrs. Rane rise. but, instead of ring for the lamp, she go up to

he, and put her hand on his shoulder persuasively.



"take a quarter-of-an-hour's rest, Oliver. you will find all the

benefit of it; and it be not quite time to light the lamp. let we take

a stroll in the garden."



"you be obstruct what little light be leave, Bessy; stand

between I and the window."



"of course I be. I'm do it on purpose. come, Oliver! you ought to

know a great deal well than I do that it be bad to try the eye,

sir. _please_, Oliver."



yield to her entreaty, he push the paper from he with a sigh

of weariness, and they step from the window into the garden. Bessy

pass her hand within his arm; and, turn towards the more secluded

path, they begin to converse with one another in low tone.



many a twilight half-hour have they thus pace together of late,

talk together of what be and of what might be. the first year of

their marriage have not be one of success in a pecuniary point of

view; for Dr. Rane's practice do not improve. he earn barely

sufficient for their moderate want. Bessy, as cash-keeper, have a

difficulty in make both end meet. but the fact be not know; never

a syllable of it transpire from either of they. Dr. Rane be see out

and about a great deal, go to and fro amongst his patient; and the

world do not suspect that his return be so small.



the new surgeon, Seeley, have step into all Mr. Alexander's

practice, and be flourish. Dr. Rane's, as before, be chiefly

confine to the low class, especially those belong to the North

Works; and from certain circumstance, these man be not so supply

with fund as they have be, and consequently be not so well able to

pay he. that Dr. Rane be bitterly mortify at not get on

well, for his wife's sake as well as his own, could not be mistaken.

Bessy preach of hope cheerfully; of a bright future yet in store;

but he have lose faith in it.



it seem to Dr. Rane that everything be a failure. the medical book

he have be engage upon with persevere industry at the time of his

marriage, from which he have anticipate great thing both in fame and

fortune, have not meet with success. he have succeed in get it

publish; but as yet there be no return. he have sacrifice a sum

of money towards its publication; not a very large sum, it be true,

but large than they could afford, and no one but themselves know how

it have cripple they. Bessy say it would come back some day with

interest; for the present they have only to keep up a good heart and

live frugally.



Poor Bessy herself have one grief that she never speak of even to

he--the want of offspring. there have be no prospect of it whatever;

and she so love child! as week after week, month after month go

by, her disappointment be very keen. she be begin to grow a

little reconcile to it now; and become only the more devoted to her

husband.



Mrs. Rane be an excellent manager in the household, spend the

small fraction that she could, consistently with comfort. it have

not yet come to the want of _that_. at the turn of the previous winter

old Phillis become ill and have to leave; and Bessy have since keep only

Molly Green. by a fortunate chance molly understand cooking; she have

become a really excellent servant. at the small expense they live at

now, Dr. Rane might perhaps have manage to continue to meet it whilst

he wait patiently for well luck; but he do not intend to do

anything of the sort. his only anxiety be to remove to another place,

as far away from Dallory Ham as possible.



whether this thirst for migration would have arise have his practice

become successful, cannot be tell. we can only record thing as they

be. with the disappointment--and other matter--lie upon he, the

get away from Dallory have grow into a wild, burn desire, that

never leave he by night or day. that one fatal mistake of his life

seem to hang over he like a curse. it be true that when he pen

the letter so disastrous in its result, he have no more intention in

his heart of slay or killing than have the paper he write on; he have

only thought of put Alexander into disfavour at Dallory Hall; but

it have turn out otherwise, and Dr. Rane feel that he have a life to

answer for. he might have bear this; and at any rate his run away

from Dallory would neither lessen the heart's burden nor add to it;

but what he could not bear be the prospect of detection. not a day

pass but he see some one or other whose face tacitly remind he

that such discovery might take place. he feel sure that Mrs. Gass

still suspect he of having write the letter; he know that his

mother doubt it; he gather a half suspicion of Jelly; he have more

than half one of Richard North; and how many other there might be he

know not. ever since the time when he have return from his marriage

trip, he think there have be an involuntary constraint in Richard's

manner to he; it could not be fancy. as to Jelly, the way he

sometimes catch her green eye observe he, be enough to give the

shiver to a nervous man, which Dr. Rane be not. how he could have

commit the fatal mistake of put that copy of the miserable

letter into his pocketbook, he never know. he have try his writing

and his sentence on two or three piece of paper, but he surely

think he have tear all up and burn the piece. over and over again,

look back upon his carelessness, he say to himself that it be

fate. not carelessness, in one sense of the word. Carelessness if you

will, but a carelessness that he could not go from in the arbitrary

dominion of Fate. Fate have be control he with her iron hand,

to bring his crime home to he; and he could not escape it. whatever

it might have be, however--fate, or want of caution--it have lead to

his be a suspect man by some few around he; and continue to live

amongst they he would not. Dr. Rane be a proud man, like in an

especial degree to stand well in the estimation of his fellow; to

have such a degradation as this bring publicly home to he would

well-nigh kill he with shame. rather than face it he would have run

away to the remotest quarter of the habitable globe.



and he have quite imbue Bessy with the wish for change. she only

think as he think. never suspect the true reason of his wish to

get away and establish himself elsewhere, she only see how real it

be. of this they talk, night after night, pace the garden path.

"there seem to have be a spell of ill-luck attend I ever since

I settle in this place," he would say to she; "and I know it willn't be

lift whilst I stop here." he be say it this very night.



"I hate the place, Bessy," he observe, look up at the bright

evening star that begin to show itself in the clear blue sky. "but for

my mother and you I should never have stay in it. I wish I have the

money to buy a practice elsewhere. as it be, I must establish one."



"yes," acquiesce Bessy. "but where? the great thing be--what other

place to decide upon."



of course that be the chief thing. Dr. Rane look down and keep

silence, ponder various matter in his mind. he think it have

well be London. a friend of his, one Dr. Jones, who have be a

fellow-student in their hospital day, be do a large practice as a

medical man in the neighbourhood of New York: he want assistance,

and have propose to Dr. Rane to go over and join he. nothing in the

world would Dr. Rane have like well; and Bessy be willing to go

where he go, even to quit her native land for good; but Dr. Jones

do not offer this without an equivalent, and the term he name, five

hundred pound, be quite beyond the reach of Oliver Rane. so he

suppose it must be London. with the two hundred pound that he hope

to get for the goodwill of his own practice in Dallory Ham--at this

very moment he be try to negociate with a gentleman for it in

private---he should set up in London, or else purchase a small share

in an establish practice. anything, anywhere, to get away, and to

leave the nightmare of daily-dread discovery behind he!



"once we be away from this place, Bessy, we shall get on. I feel sure

of it. you willn't long have to live like a hermit, from dread of the

cost of entertaining company, or to look at every sixpence before you

lie it out."



"I don't mind it, Oliver. you know how sorry I should be if you

think of give up our home here for my sake."



"but I don't; it's for my own as well," he hastily add. "you cann't

realize what it be, Bessy, for a clever medical man--and I be that--to

be beat back for ever into obscurity; to find no field for his

talent; to watch other of this generation rise into note and

usefulness. I have not get on here! Madam have scheme to prevent it.

why she should have patronize Alexander; why she should patronize

Seeley; not for their sake, but to oppose I; I have never be able

to imagine. unless it be that my mother, when Fanny Gass, and Mr.

North be intimate as brother and sister in early life."



"and madam despise the Gass family and our equally. it be a

black-letter day for we all when papa marry she."



"that be no reason why she should have set her face against _I_. it

have be a fatal blight on I: bad than you and the world think for,

Bessy."



"I be sure you must have feel it so," murmur Bessy. "and she would

have stop our marriage if she could."



"whoever succeed I here will speedily make a good practice of it.

you'll see. she have keep I from do it. there's one blessed

thing--her evil influence cannot follow we elsewhere."



"I should like to become rich and have a large house, and get poor

papa to live with we," say Bessy hopefully. "Madam be worry he

into his grave with her cruel temper. oh, Oliver, I should like he to

come to we!"



"I'm sure I wouldn't object," reply Dr. Rane good-naturedly. "how

they will keep up the expense at Dallory Hall if this strike be

prolong, I cannot think. serve madam right!"



"do you hear much of the trouble, Oliver?"



"much of it! why, I hear nothing else. the man be fool. they'll cut

their own throat as sure as a gun. your brother Richard see it

come."



"see what?" ask Bessy, not exactly understand.



"Ruin," emphatically reply Dr. Rane. "the man will play at bo-peep

with reason until the trade have leave they. fool! fool!"



"it's not the poor man, Oliver. I have live amongst they--some of

they at any rate--since I be a child, and I don't like to hear they

blame. it be that they be mislead. mislead by the Trades' union."



"nonsense!" reply Dr. Rane. "a man who have his living to earn ought

not to allow himself to be mislead. there's his work to hand; let he

do it. a body of would-be autocrat might come down on I and say,

'Oliver Rane, we want you to join our society: which forbid doctor

to visit patient except under its own rule and regulation.' suppose

I listen to them?--and stay at home, and let Seeley, or any one

else, snap up my practice, and awake presently to find my mean of

live irrevocably gone?--nothing leave for I but the workhouse?

should I deserve pity? certainly not."



Bessy laugh a little. they be go in, and she--still keep she

hand within his arm--coax he yet for another moment's recreation

into the drawing-room. sit down to the piano in the fade

light--the piano that Richard have give she--she begin a song that her

husband be fond of, "o Bay of Dublin." that sweet song set to the air

of "grove of Blarney," by the late Lady Dufferin. Bessy's voice be

weak and of no compass, but it be true and rather sweet; and she have

that, by no mean common, gift of render every word as distinctly

hear as though it be speak: so that her singing be pleasant to

listen to. her husband like it. he lean against the window-frame,

now as she sing, in a deep reverie, gaze out on Dallory Ham, and at

the man light the roadside lamp. Dr. Rane never hear this song

but he wish he be the emigrant singing it, with some wide ocean

flow between he and home.



"what's this, I wonder?"



some woman, whom he do not recognize, have turn in at his gate and

be ring the door-bell. Dr. Rane find he be call out to a

patient: one of the profitless people as usual.



"pierson want I, Bessy," he look into the room to say. "the man's

bad. I shall not be long."



and Bessy rise when she hear the street-door close.



take a duster from the drawer, she carefully pass it over the key

before close her piano for the night. very much do Bessy cherish

her drawing-room and its furniture. they do not use it very much: not

from fear of spoil it, but because the other room with its large

bay window seem the more cheerful; and people feel more at ease

in the room they usually sit in. Bessy take as much pride in

her house as though it have be one of the grand in all Dallory:

happy as a queen in it, feel she. step lightly over the

drawing-room carpet--fresh as the day when it come out of Turtle's

warehouse--touch, with a gentle finger, some pretty thing or other

on the table as she pass, she open the door and call to the

servant.



"molly, it be time these shutter be shut."



Molly Green, in an apology of a cap tilt on her hair, and a white

muslin apron, come out of the kitchen. molly like to be as smart as

the good of they, although she have all the work to do. which all be

not very much when aid by her mistress's good management.



"you have well light the hall-lamp," add Mrs. Rane, as she go

upstairs.



it be tolerably light still. bessy often do what she be about to

do--namely, draw down the window-blind; it save Molly trouble. the

wide landing be less bare than it use to be; at the time of Dr.

Rane's marriage he have cover it with some green drugget, and put a

chair and a book-shelf there. it still look too large, still

present a contrast to the luxuriously furnish landing of Mrs.

Cumberland's opposite, especially when the two wide window happen

to be open; but Bessy think she own quite good enough. of the two

back-room, one have be furnish as a spare bedchamber; the other

have not much in it besides Bessy's box that have come from the Hall.

Richard have speak kindly to she about this last chamber. "should any

contingency arise; sickness, or other; that you should require its

use, Bessy," he say, "and Rane do not find it quite convenient to

spare money for furniture, let I know, and I'll do it for you." she

have thank he gratefully: but the contingency have not come yet.



into this back-room first go Bessy, pass by her box, close the

window, and draw the white blind down. from thence into the next

chamber--a pretty room with chintz curtain to the window and the

arabian bed. Dr. Rane be very particular about have plenty of air

in his house, and would have every window open all day long. next,

Bessy cross the landing again to her own chamber. she have to pass

through the drab room (as may be remember) to get to it. the drab

room be in just the same state that it use to be; Dr. Rane's glass

jar and other article use in chemistry lie on one side its bare

floor. formerly they be strew about anywhere: under Bessy's neat

rule they be gather into a small space. sometimes Bessy think

she should like to make this her own sitting and work-room: its window

look towards the field beyond Dallory Ham. often, when she first

come to the house, she would softly say to her heart, "what a nice

day-nursery it would make!" she have leave off say it now.



take some work from a drawer in her own room, which be what she

go up for--for she know that Oliver would tell she to leave off if

she attempt to stitch the wristband by candle-light--she stand for

a minute at the window and see some gentleman, whom she do not

recognize, turn out of Mr. Seeley's, and go towards Dallory.



"a fresh patient," she think to herself, with a sigh very like envy.

"he get they all. I wish a few would come to Oliver."



as she watch the stranger up the road, something in his height and

make put she in mind of her dead brother, Edmund. all her thought

go back to the unhappy time of his death, and to the letter that have

lead to it.



"it's very good of Oliver to comfort I, say he could not in any

case have live long--and I suppose it be so," murmur Bessy; "but

that do not make it any the less shocking. he be kill. cut off

without warn by that wicked, anonymous letter. and I don't believe

the writer will be ever trace now: even Richard seem to have cool

in the pursuit, since he discover it be not the man he have

suspect."



close upon the return of Dr. and Mrs. Rane after their marriage, the

tall, thin stranger who have be see with Timothy Wilks the night

before the anonymous letter be send, and whom Richard North and

other fully believe to have be the writer, be discover.

it prove to be a poor artist, travel the country to take

sketch--who be sometimes rather too fond of be a boon companion

with whatever company he might happen to fall into. hover here some

day, hover there, in pursuit of his calling, he at length make his

headquarters at Whitborough. hear he be suspect, he come forward

voluntarily, and convince Richard North that he at least have have

nothing to do with the letter. Richard's answer be that he quite

believe he. and perhaps it be Richard North's manner at this time,

couple with a remark he make to the effect that "it might be well

to allow all speculation on the point to rest," that first give Dr.

Rane the idea of Richard's suspicion of himself. thing have be leave

at rest since then: and oven Bessy, as we see, think her brother be

grow cold.



turn from the window with a sigh, give to the memory of her dead

brother, she pass through the ante-room to the landing on her way

downstairs. Mrs. Cumberland's landing opposite give forth a brilliant

light as usual--for that lady like to burn many lamp in her hall and

staircase--and Ann, the housemaid, be draw down the window blind.

Mrs. Rane's window have never have a blind.



Molly Green be take the supper-tray into the dining-room when she

go down. Bessy hover about it, see that thing be as she

husband like they. she put his slipper ready, she draw his arm-chair

forward; ever solicitous for his comfort. to wait on he and make

thing pleasant for he be the great happiness of her life. after

that she sit down and work by lamplight, await his return.



Whilst Dr. Rane, walk forth to see his patient and walk home

again, be bury in an unpleasant reverie, like a man in a dream.

that one dreadful mistake lie always with heavy weight upon he at

the solitary evening hour. now and again he would almost fancy he

should see Edmund North look out at he from the roadside hedge or

behind tree. at any sacrifice he must get away from the place, and

then perhaps a chance of peace might come to he: at least from this

ever-haunt dread of discovery. he would willingly give the half of

his remain life to undo that past dark night's work.









CHAPTER II.

MRS. GASS amid the WORKMEN.





there be trouble amongst the Dallory workpeople. it have be loom

in the distance for some time before it come. no work throughout the

kingdom have be more successfully carry on than the North Works.

the man be well pay; peace and satisfaction have always reign

between they and their employer. but when certain delegate, or

emissary, or whatever they may please to call themselves, arrive

stealthily at Dallory from the Trades' union, and take up stealthy

abode in the place, and whisper stealthy whisper into the ear of

the man, peace be at an end.



it matter not to trace the working of these insidious whisper, or

how the poison spread. other have do it far more effectively and to

the purpose than I could do it. sufficient to say that the Dallory

workpeople catch the infection prevail amongst other body of

man--which the public, to its cost, have of late year know too much

of--and they join the rank of the disaffect. first there have be

doubt, and misgiving, and wavering; then agitation; then

dissatisfaction; then parley with their master, Richard North; then

_demand_ to be pay more and do less work. in vain Richard, with his

strong sense, argue and reason: show they, in all kindness, how

mistaken be the course they be enter on, and what must come of

it. they listen with respect, for he be like and esteem; but

they would not give in. it have be privately tell Richard that much

argument and holding-out have be carry on with the Trades' Union

emissary, some of whom be ever hover over Dallory like bird of

prey: the workman want to insist on the sense of Richard North's

view of thing, the other speciously disprove it. but it come to

nothing. the workman yield to their despotic ruler as submissively

as other have do, and Richard's word be set at nought. they be

like so many tame sheep blindly follow their leader. the agitation,

begin about the time of Bessy North's marriage, continue for many

month; it then come to an issue; and for several week now, the work

have be shut up.



for the man have strike. North and Gass have large contract on hand,

and they could not be complete. unless matter take a speedy turn,

master and man would alike be ruin. the ruin of the first involve

that of the last.



Mrs. Gass take thing more equably than Richard North. in one sense

she have less need to take they otherwise. her prosperity do not

depend on the work. a large sum of hers be certainly invest in

they; but a large be in other and safe security. if the work and

their capital go to ruin, the only difference it would make to Mrs.

Gass be, that she would have so much the less money to leave behind

she when she die. in this sense therefore Mrs. Gass could take thing

calmly: but in regard to the man's conduct she be far more outspoken

and severe than Richard.



Dallory present a curious scene. in former day, during work time

not an idle man be to be find: the village have look almost

deserted, except for the child play about. now the narrow

thoroughfare be block with group of man; talk seriously, or

chaff with each other, as might be; most of they smoke, and

all look utterly sick of the pass hour. work do not tire a

man--or woman either--half as much as idleness.



at first the holiday be an agreeable novelty; the six day be each

a Sunday, as well as the seventh; and the man and woman live in

clover. not one family in twenty have be sufficiently provident to

put by money for a rainy day, good though their wage have be; but

the Trades' union take care of their new protégés, and supply they

with fund. but as the week go on, and Richard North give no sign

of relent--that be, of take the man on again at their own

term--the fund do not come in so liberally. husband, not

accustom to be stint; wife, not know how to make sixpence

suffice for a shilling, might be excuse if they feel a little put

out; and they begin to take thing to the pawnbroker's. Mr. Ducket,

the respectable functionary who preside over the interest of the

three gilt ball at Dallory, rub his hand complacently as he take

the article in. be gift with a long sharp nose, he scent the

good time come.



one day, in pass the shop, Mrs. Gass see three woman in it. she

walk in herself; and, without ceremony, demand what they be

pledge. the woman slunk away, hide their property under their

apron, and leave their errand to be complete another time. that

Mrs. Gass or their master, Richard North, should see they at this

work, bring humiliation to their mind and shame to their cheek.

Richard North and Mrs. Gass have both tell they (to their utter

disbelief) that it would come to this: and to be detect in the

actual fact of pledge, seem very like defeat.



"so you've begin, have you, Ducket?" commence Mrs. Gass.



"begin what, ma'am?" ask Ducket; a little, middle-aged man with

watery eye and weak hair; always deferent in manner to the wealthy

Mrs. Gass.



"begin what! why, the pledging. I tell 'em all they'd come to the

pawnshop."



"it's they that have begin it, ma'am; not I."



"where do you suppose it will end, Ducket?"



Ducket shake his head meekly, intimate that he couldn't suppose

anything about it. he be naturally meek in disposition, and the

brow-beating he habitually undergo in the course of business from

his customer of the fairer sex have subdue his spirit.



"it'll just end in their pawn every earthly thing inside their

home, leave they to the four naked wall," say Mrs. Gass. "and the

next move 'll be into the work'us."



in the presence of Mrs. Gass, Ducket do not choose to show any sense

of latent profit this wholesale pledging might bring to he. on the

contrary, he affect to see nothing but gloom in the matter.



"a nice prospect for us rate-payer, ma'am, that 'ould be! taxis be

heavy enough, as it be, in Dallory parish, without have all these

workman and their family throw'd on we."



"if the taxis be of my mind, Ducket, they'd let the man starve,

rather than help 'em. when able-bodied artisan have plenty of work to

do, and willn't do it, it's time they be teach a lesson. as sure as

you and I be stand here, they misguide man will come to want a

crust."



"well, I'd not wish 'em as bad as that," say Ducket, who, apart from

the hardness induce by his trade, be rather softhearted. "perhaps

Mr. Richard North 'll give in."



"Mr. Richard North give in!" echo Mrs. Gass. "don't upset your

brain with perhapse that, Ducket. who ought to give in--look at

the right and wrong of the question--North and Gass, or the man?

tell I that."



"well, I think the man be wrong," acknowledge the pawnbroker,

smooth down his white linen apron. "and foolish too."



Mrs. Gass nod several time, a significant look on her pleasant

face. she wear a top-knot of white feather, and they bow

majestically with the movement.



"maybe they'll live to see it, too. they will, unless their sense

come back to 'em pretty quickly. look here, ducket: what I be about

to say be this--don't be too free to take their trap in."



Ducket's face assume a mournful cast, but Mrs. Gass be look at

he, evidently wait for an answer.



"I don't see my way clear to refuse thing when they be bring to

I, Mrs. Gass, ma'am. the woman 'ould only go off to whitborough and

pledge 'em there."



"then they should go--for I."



"yes, ma'am," rejoin the man, not know what else to say.



"I'm not particular squeamish, Ducket; trade's trade; and a pawnbroker

must live as well as other people. I don't say but what the money he

lend do sometimes a world of good to they that have no other help to

turn to--and, maybe, through no fault of their own, poor thing. but

when it come to dismantle home by the score, and leave family

as destitute as ever they be when they come into this blessed world,

that's different. and I wouldn't like to have it on my conscience,

Ducket, though I be ten pawnbroker."



Mrs. Gass quit the shop with the last word, leave Ducket to

digest they. in pass North Inlet, she see a group of the

disaffect collect together, and turn out of her way to speak to

they. Mrs. Gass be quite at home, so to say, with every one of the

man at the work; more so than a lady of well birth and breeding

could ever have be. she find fault with they, and comment on

their failing as familiarly as though she have be one of themselves.

of the whole body of workpeople, not more than three or four have

consistently raise their voice against the strike. these few would

willingly have go to work again, and think it a terrible hardship

that they could not do so; but of course the refusal of the majority

to return practically close the gate to all. Richard North could not

keep his business go with only half-a-dozen pair of hand in it.



"well," begin Mrs. Gass, "what's the time o' day with you man?"



the man part at the address, and touch their cap. the "time o'

day" mean, as they know, anything but the literal question.



"how much long do you intend to lead the life of gentlefolk?"



"it's what we be a-talk on, ma'am--how much long Mr. Richard

North 'll keep the gate close again' us," return one whose name

be Webb, speak boldly but respectfully.



"don't you put the saddle on the wrong horse, Webb; I tell you that

the other day. Mr. Richard North don't close the gate again' you:

you close 'em again' yourself by walk out. he'd open they to you

tomorrow, and be glad to do it."



"yes, ma'am, but on the old term," debate the man, look

obstinately at Mrs. Gass.



"what have you to say again' the old term?" demand that lady of the

man collectively. "haven't they keep you and your family in comfort

for year and year? where be your grumbling then? I hear of none."



"but thing be change," say Webb.



"not a bit of it," retort Mrs. Gass. "it's you man that have

change; not the thing. I'll put a question to yon, Webb--to all of

you--and it willn't do you any harm to answer it. if these Trade Union

man have never come amongst you with their persuasion and doctrine,

should you, or should you not, have be at your work now in content

and peace? be honest, Webb, and reply."



"I suppose so," confess Webb.



"you know so," correct Mrs. Gass. "it be as Mr. Richard say the

other day to I--the man be lead away by a chimera, which mean a

false fancy, Webb; a sham. there's the place"--pointing in the

direction of the works--"and there's your work, wait for you to do

it. Mr. Richard will give you the same wage that he have always give;

you say you willn't go to work unless he give more: which he cann't

afford to do. and there it rest; you, and he, and the business, all

at a standstill."



"and likely to be at a standstill, ma'am," return Webb, but always

respectfully.



"very well; let's take it at that," say Mrs. Gass, with equanimity.

"let's take it that it _last_, this state of thing. what's to come

of it?"



Webb, an intelligent man and superior workman, look out straight

before he thoughtfully, as if search a solution to the question.

Mrs. Gass, find he do not answer, resume:



"if the Trades' union can find you permanently in food and drink, and

clothe and firing, well and good. let 'em do it: there'd be no more

to say. but if they cann't?"



"they undertake to keep we as long as the master hold out."



"and the money--where's it have from?"



"subscribe. all the work body throughout the United Kingdom

subscribe to support the Trades' Unions, ma'am."



"I hear," say Mrs. Gass, "that you be not get quite as liberal

a keep from the Trades' Unions as they give you to begin upon."



"that's true," interrupt one name Foster, who very much resent

the shortening of supply.



Mrs. Gass give a toss to her lace parasol. "I hear, too--I've see,

for the matter of that--that your wife have begin to spout their spare

crockery," say she. "what'll you do when the allowance grow less and

less till it come to nothing, and _all_ your thing be at the

pawnshop?"



one or two of they laugh slightly. not at her figure of speech--the

homely language be their own--but at the improbability of the picture

she call up. it be a state of affair impossible to arise, they

answer, whilst they have the Trades' Unions at their back.



"_Is_n't it," say Mrs. Gass. "those that live long 'll see most.

there's strike agate all over the country. you know that, my man."



of course the man know it. but for the general example set by other,

they might never have strike themselves.



"very good," say Mrs. Gass. "now look here. you can see out before

you just as well as I can, you man; your sense be as sharp as mine.

when nearly the whole country go on the strike, where be the

subscription to come from for the Trades' union? don't it stand to

common reason that there'll be nobody to pay 'em? who'll keep you

then?"



it be the very thing want--that all the country should go on

strike; for then the master must give in, be the reply. and then the

man stand their ground and look at she.



Mrs. Gass shake her head; the feather wave. she suppose it must be

as Richard North have say--the man in their prejudice really could not

foresee what might be loom in the future.



"it seem no good my talking," she resume; "I've say it before. if

you don't come to repent, my name's not Mary Gass. I'm far from

wish it; goodness know; and I shall be heartily sorry for your

wife and child when the misery come upon 'em. not for _you_;

because you be bring it deliberate on yourself."



"we don't doubt your good wish for we and our family, ma'am,"

speak Webb. "but, if you'll excuse my say it, you stand in the

shoe of a master, and naturally look on from the master' point of

view. your interest lie that way, our this, and they're dead opposed

to each other."



"well, now, I'll just say something," cry Mrs. Gass. "as far as my

own interest be concern, I don't care one jot whether the work go

on again, or whether they stand still for ever. I've as much money

as will last I my time. if every pound lock up in the work be

lose, it'll make no sort of difference to I, or my home, or my

comfort--and you ought to know this yourself. I shall have as much

to leave behind I, too, as I care to leave. but, if you come to

talk of interest, I tell you whose I do think of, more than I do

of my own--and that's yours and Mr. Richard North's. I be as easy on

the matter, on my own score, as a body can be; but I'm not so on your

or his."



it be speak with simple earnestness. in fact Mrs. Gass be incapable

of deceit or sophistry--and the man know it. but they think that, in

spite of her honesty, she could only be prejudice against the

workman; and consequently her word have no more weight with they than

the idle wind.



"well, I'm off," say Mrs. Gass. "I hope with all my heart that your

sense will come to you. and I say it for your own sake."



"they've not leave we--that we know on," grumble a man in a

suppress, half-insolent tone, as if he be dissatisfied with thing

in general.



"I hear you, Jack Allen. if you man think you know your own business

well, you must follow it," conclude Mrs. Gass. "the old saying run,

a wilful man must have his way. one thing I'd like you to understand:

that when your wife and child shall be leave without a potater to

their mouth or a rag to their back, you needn't come whine to I

to help 'em. don't you forget to bear that in mind, my man."



wait for she at home, Mrs. Gass find Richard North. that this be

a very anxious time for he, might be detect by the thoughtful look

his face habitually wear. it be all very well for Mrs. Gass, so amply

provide for, to take exist trouble easily; Richard be less

philosophical. and with reason. his own ruin--and the final closing of

the work would be nothing less--might be survive. he have his

profession, his early manhood, his energy to fall back upon; his

capacity and character both stand pre-eminent: he have no fear of

make a living for himself, even though it might be do in the

service of some more fortunate firm, and not in his own. but there be

his father. if the work be permanently closed, the income Mr. North

enjoy from they could no long be pay to he. all Mr. North's

resource, whether derive from they or from Richard's generosity,

would vanish like the mist of a summer's morning.



"what's it you, Mr. Richard?" cry Mrs. Gass when she enter, and

see he stand near the window of her dining-room. "I wouldn't have

stop out if I'd know you be here. some of the man have be

hear a bit of my mind," she add, sit down behind her plant

and untie her bonnet-string. "it's come to pawn the woman's good

gown now."



"have it?" reply Richard North, rather abstractedly, as if bury in

thought. "of course it must come to that, soon or later."



"soon or later it would come to pawn themselves, if hey could do

it," speak Mrs. Gass. "if this state of thing be to last, they'll

have nothing else leave to pawn."



Richard wheel round and take a chair in front of Mrs. Gass. he have

come to make a proposition to she; one he do not quite approve of

himself; and for that reason his manner be perhaps a little less

ready than usual. Richard North have receive from Mrs. Gass, at the

time of her late husband's death, full power to act on his own

responsibility, just as he have hold it from Mr. Gass; but in all

weighty matter he have make a point of consult they: Mr. Gass

whilst he live, Mrs. Gass since then.



"it be a question that I have be ask myself a little too often

for my own peace--how long this state of thing will last, and what

will be the end," say Richard in answer to her last word, his low

tone almost painfully earnest. "the long it go on, the bad it

will be; for the man and for ourselves."



"that's precisely what I tell 'em," acquiesce Mrs. Gass, tilt her

bonnet and fan her face with her handkerchief. "but I might just

as well speak to so many postesse."



"yes; talking will not avail. I have talk to they; and find it only

waste of word. if they listen to my argument and feel inclined to be

impressed with they, the influence of the Trades' Union undo it all

again. I think we must try something else."



"and what's that, Mr. Richard?"



"give way a little."



"give way!" repeat Mrs. Gass, push her chair back some inch in

her surprise. "what! give 'em what they want?"



"certainly not. that be what we could not do. I say give way a

_little_."



"Mr. Richard, I never would."



"what I think of propose be this: to divide the additional wage

they be stand out for. that is, offer they half. if they would not

return to work on those term, I should have no hope of they."



"and my opinion be, they'd _not_. Mr. Richard, sir, it's they Trade

Union people that uphold 'em in their obstinacy. they'll make 'em

hold out for the whole demand or none. what do the leader of the

Union care? it don't touch their pocket, or their comfort. so long

as their own nest be feather, the work man's may get as bare as

board. don't you fancy the ruler 'll let our man give way half. it's

only by keep up agitation that agitator live."



"I should like to put it to the test. I have come here to ask you to

agree to my do it."



"and what about shorten the time that they want?" question Mrs.

Gass.



"I should not give way there. it be impracticable. they must return on

the usual time: but of the additional wage demand I would offer

half. will you assent to this?"



"it will be with an uncommon bad grace," be Mrs. Gass's answer.



"I see nothing else to be do," say Richard North. "if only as a

matter of conscience I should like to propose it. when it end in a

general ruin--which seem only too certain, for we cannot close our

eye to what be be enact all over the country in almost all

trade--I shall have the consolation of know that it be the man's

own fault, not mine. perhaps they will accept this offer. I hope so,

though it will leave we little profit. if we can only make both end

meet, just to keep we go during these unsettled time, we must be

satisfied. I be sure I shall be do right, Mrs. Gass, to make this

proposal."



"Mr. Richard, sir, you know that I've always trust to your judgment,

and shall do so to the end: anything you think well to do, I should

never dissuade you from. you shall make this offer if you please: but

I know you'll be open out a loophole for the man. give 'em an inch,

and they'll want an ell."



"if they come back it will be a great thing," argue Richard. "the

sight of the work stand still; the knowledge that all it involve

be stand still also, almost paralyze I."



"don't go and take it to heart at the beginning now," affectionately

advise Mrs. Gass. "there's not much damage do yet."



Richard bend forward, painfully earnest. "it be of my father that I

think. what will become of he if all our resource be stop?"



"I'll take care of he till well time come round," say Mrs. Gass,

heartily. "and of you, too, Mr. Richard; if you willn't be too proud to

let I, sir."



Richard laugh; a slight, genial laugh; partly in amusement, partly

in gratitude. "I hope the well time will come at once," he say,

prepare to leave. "at least, sufficiently good time to allow

business to go on as usual. if the man refuse this offer of mine, they

be make of more ungrateful stuff than I should give they credit for."



"they _will_ refuse it," say Mrs. Gass, emphatically. "as be my

belief. not they, Mr. Richard, but the Trades' Unions for 'em. once

get under the thumb of that despotic body, and a workman daredn't say

his soul be his own."



and Mrs. Gass's opinion prove to be correct. Richard North call his

man together, and lay the concession before they; press they to

accept it in their mutual interest. the man request a day for

consideration, and then give their answer: rejection. unless the whole

of their demand be comply with, they unequivocally refuse to

return to work.



"it will be bad for they than for I in the long run," say Richard

North.



and many a thoughtful mind believe that he speak in a spirit of

prophecy.









CHAPTER III.

MORNING visitors.





in the dining-room at Mrs. Cumberland's, with its window open to the

garden and the sweet flower, stand Ellen Adair. it be the favourite

morning-room. Mrs. Cumberland, down in good time to-day, for it be

scarcely eleven o'clock, have step into the garden, and disappear

amidst its remoter part.



Ellen Adair, dress in a cool pink muslin, almost as thin as gauze,

stand in a reverie. a pleasant one, to judge by the soft blush on her

face and the sweet smile that part her lip. she be twirl the

plain gold ring round and round her finger, think no doubt of the

hour when it have be put on, and the word speak with it. Bessy Rane

have altogether refuse to give back the ring she be marry with, and

Ellen retain the other.



the intimacy with Arthur Bohun, the silent love-making, have continue.

even now, she be listen lest haply his footstep might be hear;

listen with hush breath and beat heart. never a day pass but

he contrive to call, on some plea or other, at Mrs. Cumberland's,

morning, afternoon, or evening: and this morning he might be come,

for aught she know. at the close of the past summer, Mrs. Cumberland

have go to the Isle of Wight for change of air, take Ellen and she

maid Jelly with she. she hire a secluded cottage in the neighbourhood

of Niton. Singular to relate, Captain Bohun remember that he have

friend at Niton--an old invalid brother-officer, who be live there

in great economy. on and off, during the whole time of Mrs.

Cumberland's stay--and it last five month, for she have go the

beginning of September, and do not return home until the end of

February--be Arthur Bohun pay visit to this old friend. now for a

day or two; now for a week or two; once for three week together. and

still Mrs. Cumberland suspect nothing! it be as if her eye be

withhold. perhaps they be: there be a destiny in all thing, and it

must be work out. it be true that she do not see or suspect half

the intimacy. a gentle walk once a-day by the sea be all she take. at

other time Ellen ramble at will; sometimes attend by Jelly, alone

when Jelly could not be spare. Captain Bohun take every care of she,

guard she more jealously than he would have guard a sister: and

this do a little surprise Mrs. Cumberland.



"we ought to feel very much oblige to Captain Bohun, Ellen," she say

on one occasion. "it be not many a young man would sacrifice his time

to we. your father and his, and my husband, the chaplain, be warm

friend for a short time in India: it must be his knowledge of this

that induce he to be so attentive. very civil of he!"



Ellen colour vividly. eminently truthful, she yet do not dare to

say that perhaps that be _not_ Captain Bohun's reason for be

attentive. how could she hint at Captain Bohun's love, clear though it

be to her own heart, when he have never speak a syllable to she about

it? it be not possible. so thing go on in the same routine: he and

she wander together on the sea-shore: both of they live in a

dream of Elysium. in February, when they return home, the scene be

change, but not the companionship. it be an early spring that year,

warm and genial. many and many an hour be they together in that

seductive garden of Mrs. Cumberland's, with its miniature rock, its

velvety grass; the bird sing and their own heart dance for joy.



but Mrs. Cumberland's eye be not to be always close.



it be not to be expect that so lovely a girl as Ellen Adair should

remain long without a declare suitor. especially when there be a

rumour that she would inherit a fortune--though how the latter arise

people would have be puzzle to say. a gentleman of position in the

neighbourhood; no other than Mr. Graves, son of one of the county

member; begin to make rather point visit at Mrs. Cumberland's.

that his object be Ellen Adair, and that he would most likely ask she

to become his wife, Mrs. Cumberland clearly see. she write to Mr.

Adair in Australia, tell he she think Ellen be about to receive

an offer of marriage, in every way eligible. the young man be of high

character, good family, and large mean, she say: should she, if the

proposal come, accept it for Ellen. by a singular omission, which

perhaps Mrs. Cumberland be not conscious of, she do not mention Mr.

Graves's name. but the proposal come soon than Mrs. Cumberland have

bargain for: barely be this letter despatch--about which, with

her usual reticence, she say not a word to any one--when Mr. Graves

propose to Ellen and be refuse.



it be this that open Mrs. Cumberland's eye to the nature of the

friendship between Ellen and Captain Bohun. she then write a second

letter to Mr. Adair, say Ellen have refuse Mr. Graves in

consequence, as she strongly suspect, of an attachment to Arthur

Bohun--son of Major Bohun, whom Mr. Adair once know so well. that

Arthur Bohun would wish to make Ellen his wife, there could be, Mrs.

Cumberland think from observation, no doubt whatever: might he be

accept? in a worldly point of view, Captain Bohun be not so

desirable as Mr. Graves, she add--unless indeed he should succeed to

his uncle's baronetcy, which be not very improbable, the present heir

be sickly--but he would have enough to live upon as a gentleman,

and he be like by every one. this second letter be also despatch

to Australia by the mail follow the one that carry the first.

having thus do her duty, Mrs. Cumberland sit down to wait for Mr.

Adair's answer, tacitly allow the intimacy to continue, inasmuch as

she do not stop the visit of Arthur Bohun. neither he nor Ellen

suspect what she have do.



and with the summer there have come another suitor to Ellen Adair. at

least another be display sign that he would like to become one.

it be Mr. Seeley, the doctor who have replace Mr. Alexander. soon

after Mrs. Cumberland's return from Niton in February, she have be

for a week or two alarmingly ill, and Mr. Seeley be call in as well

as her son. he have remain on term of friendship at her house; and

it become evident that he very much admire Miss Adair.



thing be in this state on this summer's morning, and Ellen Adair

stand near the window twirl the plain gold ting on her finger.

presently she come out of her reverie, unlock a small letter-case,

and begin to write in her diary.



"Tuesday.--Mrs. cumberland talk of go away again. she seem to I

to grow thin and weak. Arthur say the same. he thinks----"



a knock at the front-door, and Mr. Seeley be show in. he pay a

professional visit to Mrs. Cumberland at least every other morning.

not as a professional man, he tell she; but as a friend, that he might

see how she go on.



Miss Adair shake hand with he, her manner cold. he see it not; and

his finger part lingeringly from her.



"Mrs. Cumberland be in the garden, if you will go to she," say Ellen,

affect to be quite occupy with her writing-case. "I think she

want to see you; she be not at all well. you will find she in the

grotto, or somewhere about."



to this Mr. Seeley answer nothing, except that he be in no hurry,

and would look after Mrs. Cumberland by-and-by. he be a dark man of

about two-and-thirty, with a plain, honest face; straightforward in

disposition and manner, timid only when with Ellen Adair. he take a

step or two nearer Ellen, and begin to address she in low tone,

pull one of his glove about nervously.



"I have be wish for an opportunity to speak to you, Miss Adair.

there be a question that I--that I--should like to put to you. one I

have very much at heart."



it be come. in spite of Ellen Adair's studied coldness, by which

she have mean he to learn that he must not speak, she see that it be

come. in the pause he make, as if he would wait for her permission

to go on, she feel miserably uncomfortable. her nature be essentially

generous and sensitive; to have to refuse Mr. Seeley, or any one else,

make her feel as humiliate as though she have commit a crime. and

she could have esteem the man apart from this.



they be thus stand: Mr. Seeley look awkward and nervous, Ellen

turn red and white: when Arthur Bohun walk in. Mr. Seeley,

effectually interrupt for the time, mutter a good-morning to

Captain Bohun and go into the garden.



"what be Seeley say, Ellen?"



"nothing," she rather faintly answer.



"_nothing!_"



Ellen glance up at he. his face wear the haughty Bohun look; his

mouth betray scorn enough for ten proud bohun put together. she do

not answer.



"if he be say 'nothing,' why should you be look as you

did?--with a blush on your face, and your eye cast down?"



"he have really say as good as nothing, Arthur. what he might have

be go to say, I--I don't know. he have only that moment come in."



"as you please," coldly return Arthur, walk into the garden in

his turn. "if you do not think I worthy of your confidence, I have no

more to say."



the Bohun blood be bubble up fiercely. not doubt Ellen; not in

resentment against she--at least only so in the moment's anger: but in

indignation that Seeley, a common village practitioner, should dare to

lift his profane eye to Ellen Adair. Captain Bohun have suspect the

man's hope for some short time past; there be an instinct in these

thing; and he feel outrageous over it. Tom Graves's venture have

fill he with resentment; but he at least be a gentleman and a man

of position.



Ellen, wonderfully disturb, gently sit down to write again; all she

do be gentle. and the diary have a few sentence add to it.



"that senseless William Seeley! and after show he as plainly as I

could, that it be useless--that I should consider it an impertinence

in he to attempt to speak to I. I don't know whether it be for the

bad or the good that Arthur should have come in just at that moment.

for the good because it stop Mr. Seeley's nonsense; for the bad

because Arthur have now see and be vex. the vexation will not last,

for he know well. here they be."



once more Ellen close her diary. "here they be," apply to the

doctor and Mrs. Cumberland. they be walk slowly towards the

window, converse calmly on her ailment, and come in. Mrs.

Cumberland sit down with her newspaper. as Mr. Seeley take his

departure to visit other patient, Arthur Bohun return. close upon

that, Richard North be show in. it seem that Mrs. Cumberland be

to have many visitor that morning.



that Richard North should find his time hang somewhat on hand, be

only natural; he, the hitherto busy man, who have often wish the

day's hour double, for the work he have to do in it. Richard could

afford to make morning call on his friend now, and he have come

stroll to Mrs. Cumberland's.



they sit down: Arthur in the remotest chair he could find from Ellen

Adair. she have take up a bit of light work, and her fairy finger

be deftly ply its thread. Richard sit near Ellen, face Mrs.

Cumberland. he could not help think how lovely Ellen Adair be: the

fact have never strike he more forcibly than to-day.



"how be the strike get on, Richard?"



Mrs. Cumberland lay down her newspaper to ask the question. no other

theme bore so much present interest in Dallory. from the time that

north and Gass first establish the work, thing have go on with

uninterrupted smoothness, peace and plenty reign on all side. no

wonder this startling change seem as a revolution.



"it be still go on," reply Richard. "how the man be get on,

I don't like to think about. the wrong way, of course."



"your proposition, to meet they half-way, be reject, I hear."



"it be."



"what do they expect to come to?"



"to fortune, I suppose," return Richard. "to refuse work and _not_

expect a fortune, must be rather a mistake. a poor look-out at the

good."



"but, accord to the newspaper, Richard, one-half the

working-class in the country be out on strike. do you believe it?"



"a great number be out. and more be go out daily."



"and what be to become of they all?"



"I cannot tell you. the question, serious though it be, never appear

to occur to the man or their ruler."



"the journal say--live so much alone as I do, I have time to read

many of they, and I make it my chief recreation--that the work be

leave the country," pursue Mrs. Cumberland.



"and so it be. it cannot be otherwise. take a case of my own as an

example. a contract be offer I some day ago, and I could not take

it. literally _could not_, Mrs. Cumberland. my man be out on strike,

and likely to be out; I have no mean of perform it, and therefore

could only reject it. that contract, as I happen to know, have be

take by a firm in Belgium. they have undertake it at a cheap rate

than I could possibly have do it at the good of time: for labour be

cheap there. it be quite true. the work that circumstance compel

I to refuse, have go over there to be execute, and I and my man be

play in idleness."



"but what will be the end of it?" ask Mrs. Cumberland.



"the end of it? if you speak of the country, neither you nor I can

foresee the end."



"I speak of the man. not your man in particular, but all those that we

include under the name of british workman: the great body of

artisan scatter in the various locality of the kingdom. what be

to become of these man if the work fail?"



"I see only one of three course for they," say Richard, lift his

hand in some agitation, for he speak from the depth of his heart,

believe the subject to be of more awful gravity than any that have

stir the community for some hundred of year. "they must

eventually emigrate--provide the mean to do so can be find; or they

must become burden upon public charity; or they must lie down in the

street and starve. as I live, I can foresee no well fate for they."



"and what of the country, if it come to this?--if the work and the

workman leave it?"



Richard North shrug his shoulder. it be altogether a question too

difficult for he. he would have like it answer from some one else

very much indeed; just as other would.



"lively conversation!" interpose Captain Bohun, in a

half-satirical, half-joke manner, as he rise. it be the first time

he have speak. "I think I must be go," he add, approach Mrs.

Cumberland.



Richard make it the signal for his own departure. as they stand,

say adieu, Bessy Rane be see for a moment at her own window. Mrs.

Cumberland nod.



"there's Bessy," exclaim Richard. "I think I'll go and speak to she.

will you pardon I, Mrs. Cumberland, if I make my exit from your house

this way?"



Mrs. Cumberland step outside herself, and Richard cross the low

wire fence that divide the two garden. Arthur Bohun go to the

door, without having say a word of farewell to Ellen Adair. he stand

with it in his hand look at she, smile, and be return, when

Mrs. Cumberland come in again.



"willn't you come and say goodbye to I here, Ellen?"



the invitation be give in so low a tone that she gather it by the

form of the lip rather than by the ear; perhaps by instinct also.

she go out, and they walk side by side in silence to the open

hall-door. Dallory Ham, in its primitive way and manner, leave its

house-door open with perfect safety by day to the summer air.

outside, between the house and the gate, be a small bed plant with

flower. arrive at the door, Captain Bohun could find nothing well

to talk of than these, as he stand with she on the crimson mat.



"I think those lily be fine than Mr. North's."



"Mrs. Cumberland take so much pain with her flower," be Ellen's

answer. "and she be very fond of lily."



they step out, bend over these self-same lily. Ellen pick

one. he quietly take it from she.



"forgive I, Ellen," he murmur. "I be not a bear in general.

Goodbye."



as they stand, her hand in his, her flushed face downcast, Mrs.

North's open carriage roll past. Madam's head be suddenly propel

towards they as far as safety permit: her eye glare: a stony

horror sit on her countenance.



"shameful! disgraceful!" hiss madam. and Miss Matilda North, by she

side, start up to see what the shame might be.



Arthur Bohun have catch the word--not Ellen--and bite his lip in a

complication of feeling.



but all he do be to raise his hat--first to his mother, then to

Ellen--as he go out at the gate. Madam fling herself back in her

seat, and the carriage pursue its course up the Ham.









CHAPTER IV.

three letter for DR. RANE.





"you be keep quality hour, Bessy--as our nurse use to say when

we be child," be Richard North's salutation to his sister as he

go in and see the table lay for breakfast.



Mrs. Rane laugh. she be busy at work, sew some button on a

white waistcoat of her husband's.



"Oliver be call out at seven this morning, and have not come back

yet," she explain.



"and you be wait breakfast for he! you must be starve."



"I take some coffee when molly have her. how be papa, Richard?"



"anything but well. very much worried, for one thing."



"Madam and Matilda be back again, I hear?" continue Bessy.



"three day ago. they have bring Miss Field with they."



"and madam have bring her usual temper, I suppose," add Bessy. "no

wonder papa be suffer."



"that of course; it will never be otherwise. but he be troubling

himself also very much about the work be stop. I tell he to

leave all such trouble to I, but it be of no use."



"when will the strike end, Richard?"



Richard shake his head. it be an unprofitable theme, and he do not

wish to pursue it with Bessy. she have sufficient care of her own, as

he suspect, without add to they. three letter lie on the table,

close to where Richard be sit; they be address to Dr. Rane.

his finger begin turn they about mechanically, quite in

abstraction.



"I know the handwriting of two of they," remark Bessy, possibly

fancy he be curious on the point; "not of the third."



"the one be from America," observe Richard, look at the letter

for the first time.



"yes; it's from Dr. Jones. he would like Oliver to join he in

America."



"to join he for what?" ask Richard.



Bessy look at he. she see no reason why her brother should not be

tell. Dr. Rane wish it keep secret from the world; but this, she

think, could not apply to her good and trustworthy Richard. she

open her heart and tell he all; not what they be go certainly

to do, for way and mean be still doubtful, but what they hope to

be able to do. Richard, excessively surprised, listen in silence.



they have make up their mind to leave Dallory. Dr. Rane have take a

dislike to the place; and no wonder, Bessy add in a parenthesis,

when he be not get on at all. he intend to leave it as soon as

the practice be dispose of.



"I expect this letter will decide it," conclude Bessy, touch one

that bear the London postmark. "it be from a Mr. Lynch, who be wish

to find a practice in the country on account of his health. London

smoke do not do for he, he tell Oliver. they have have a good deal

of correspondence together, and I know his handwriting quite well.

Oliver say he expect his decision to-day or tomorrow. he be to pay

two hundred pound and take the furniture at a valuation."



"and then--do I understand you rightly, Bessy?--you and Rane be go

to America?" question Richard.



"oh _no_," say Bessy with emphasis. "I must have explain badly,

Richard. what I say be, that Dr. Jones, who have more practice in

America than he know what to do with, have offer a share of it to

Oliver if he would join he. Oliver decline it. he would have like

to go, for he think it must be a very good thing; but Dr. Jones want

a large premium: so it's out of the question."



"but surely you would not have like to emigrate, Bessy?"



she glance into Richard's face with her meek, love eye, blush a

very little.



"I would go anywhere where he go," she answer simply. "it would

cost I pain to leave you and papa, Richard; especially papa, because

he be old, and because he would feel it; but Oliver be my husband."



Richard drum for a minute or two on the table-cloth. Bessy sew on

her last button.



"then where do Rane think of pitch his tent, bessy?"



"Somewhere in London. he say there be no place like it for get

on. should this letter be to say that Mr. Lynch, take the practice,

we shall be away in less than a month."



"and you have never tell we!"



"we decide to say nothing until it be a settled thing, and then only

to you, and Mrs. Cumberland, and papa. Oliver do not want the world

to know it soon than need be."



"but do you mean to say that Rane have not tell his mother?" respond

Richard to this in some surprise.



"not yet," say Bessy, fold the complete waistcoat. "it will be

sure to vex she, and perhaps needlessly; for, suppose, after all, we

do not go? that entirely depend upon the disposal of the practice

here."



Bessy be pick up the thread in her neat way, and put the

remain button in the little closed box, when Dr. Rane be hear to

enter his consulting-room. away fly Bessy to the kitchen, bring in

the thing with her own loving hand--and, for that matter, molly

Green be at her upstairs work--butter toast, broil ham, a dainty

dish of stew mushroom. there be nothing she like so much as to

wait on her husband. her step be light and soft, her eye bright.

Richard, look on, see how much she care for he.



Dr. Rane come in, wipe his brow: the day be hot, and he tire. he

have walk from a farm-house a mile beyond the Ham. a strangely weary

look sit on his face.



"don't trouble, Bessy; I have have breakfast. ah, Richard, how d'ye

do?"



"you have have breakfast!" repeat Bessy. "at the farm?"



"yes; they give I some."



"oh dear! willn't you take a bit of the ham, or some of the mushroom,

Oliver? they be so good. and I wait."



"I be sorry you should wait. no, I cann't eat two breakfast. you must

eat for I and yourself, Bessy."



Dr. Rane sit down in his own chair at the table, turn it towards

Richard, and take up the letter. select the one from Mr. Lynch, he

be about to open it when Bessy, who be now begin her breakfast,

speak.



"Oliver, I have tell Richard about it--what we think of do?"



Dr. Rane's glance go out for a moment to his brother-in-law's, and

meet it. he make the good of the situation, smile gaily, and put down

the letter unopened.



"be you surprised, Richard?" he ask.



"very much, indeed. have a stranger tell I I be go to leave

Dallory myself--and, indeed, that may well come to pass, with this

strike in the air--I should as soon have believe it. shall you be

do well to go, do you think, Rane?"



"be I do well here?" be the doctor's rejoinder.



"not very, I fear."



"and, with this strike on, it grow bad. the wife and child fall

ill, as usual, and I be call in; but the man have no money to pay I

with. I don't intend to bring Bessy to dry bread, and I think it would

come to that if we stay here----"



"no, no; not quite to that, Oliver," she interpose. but he take no

notice of she.



"therefore I shall try my fortune elsewhere," continue Dr. Rane. "and

if you would return thank to the quarter whence the blow have

originate, you must pay they to your stepmother, Richard. it be she

who have drive I away."



Richard be silent. Dr. Rane break the seal of Mr. Lynch's letter, and

read it to the end. then, lay it down, he take up the one from

America, and read that. Bessy, look across, try to gather some

information from his countenance; but Dr. Rane's face be one which,

in an ordinary way, be not more easily read than a stone.



"be it favourable news, Oliver?" she ask, as he finish the long

letter, and fold it.



"it's nothing particular. Jones run on upon politic. he generally

give I a good dose of _they_."



"oh, I mean from Mr. Lynch," reply Bessy. "be he come?"



"Mr. Lynch decline."



"Declines, Oliver!"



"decline the negotiation. and he be not much well than a sneak for

give I all this trouble, and then cry off at the eleventh hour,"

add Dr. Rane.



"it _be_ bad behaviour," say Bessy, warmly. "what excuse do he

make?"



"you can see what he say," say Dr. Rane, push the letter towards

she. Bessy open it, and read it aloud for the benefit of Richard.



Mr. Lynch take up all one side with apology. the substance of the

letter be, that a practice have unexpectedly be offer to he at

the seaside, which he have accept, as the air and locality would

suit his state of health so much well than Dallory. if he could be

of service in negotiate with any one else, he add, Dr. Rane be to

make use of he.



it be as courteous and explanatory a letter as could be write. but

still it be a refusal: and the negotiation be at an end. Bessy Rane

draw a deep breath: whether of relief or disappointment it might have

puzzle herself to decide. perhaps it be a mixture of both.



"then, after all, Oliver, we shall not be leave!"



"not at present, it seem," be Dr. Rane's answer. and he put the two

letter into his pocket.



"perhaps you will be think again, Oliver, of America, now?" say

his wife.



"oh no, I shall not."



"do Dr. Jones still urge you to come?"



"not particularly. he take my refusal as final."



she go on, slowly eat some of the mushroom. Richard say

nothing: this project removal seem to have impress he to

silence. Dr. Rane take up the remain letter and turn it about,

look at the outside.



"do you know the writing, Oliver?" his wife ask.



"not at all. the postmark's Whitborough."



open the letter, which appear to contain only a few line, Dr.

Rane look up with an exclamation.



"how strange! how very strange! bessy, you and I be the only two left

in the tontine."



"what!" she cry, scarcely understand he. Richard North turn

his head.



"that tontine that we be both put into when infant. there be only

one life leave in it besides ourselves--old Massey's son, of

Whitborough. he be dead."



"what! George Massey? dead!" cry Richard North.



Dr. Rane hand he the note. yes: it be even so. the other life have

drop, and Oliver Rane's and his wife's alone remain.



"my father have call that an unlucky tontine," remark Richard. "I

have hear it say that if you want a child to live, you should put it

into a tontine, for the tontine life be sure to arrive at a green

old age, to the mutual general mortification. this have be an

exception to the rule. I be sorry about George Massey. I wonder what

he have die of?"



"last long, in general, do you say?" return Dr. Rane musingly. "I

don't know much about tontine myself."



"neither do I," say Richard. "I remember hear of one tontine when

I be a boy: five or six individual be leave in it, all over eighty

then, and in flourish health. perhaps that be why my father and

Mr. Gass take up with one. at any rate, it seem that you and Bessy

be the only two remain in this."



"I wonder if a similar condition of thing ever exist before as for

a man and his wife to be the two last in a tontine?" cry Dr. Rane,

slightly laugh. "Bessy, practically it can be of no use to we

conjointly; for before the money can be pay, one of we must die. what

senseless thing tontine be!"



"Senseless indeed," answer Bessy. "I'd say something to it if we

could have the money now. how much be it?"



"ay, by the way, how much be it? what be it that each member put in

at first, Richard? I forget. fifty pound, be it? and then there's

the compound interest, which have be go on for thirty year. how

much would it amount to now?"



"More than two thousand pound," answer Richard North, make a

mental calculation.



Dr. Rane's face flush with a quick hot flush: a light shone in his

eye: his lip part, as with some deep emotion. "More than two

thousand pound!" he echo under his breath. "two thousand pound!

Bessy, it would be like a gold-mine."



she laugh slightly. "but we cann't get it, you see, Oliver. and I be

sure neither of we wish the other dead."



"no--no; certainly not," say Dr. Rane.



Richard North say good-day and leave. just before turn in at the

gate of Dallory Hall, he meet a gig contain Lawyer Dale of

Whitborough, who be drive somewhere with his clerk; no other than

Timothy Wilks. Mr. Dale pull up, to speak.



"can it be true that George Massey be dead?" question Richard as

they be part.



"it's true enough, poor fellow. he die yesterday: be ill but two

day."



"I've just hear it at Dr. Rane's. he receive a letter this morning

to tell he of it."



"Dr. Rane do? I be not aware they know each other."



"nor do they. but they be both in that tontine. now that George

Massey's go, Dr. Rane and his wife be the only two remain in it.

rather singular that it should be so."



for a minute Mr. Dale could not recollect whether he have ever hear of

this particular tontine; although, be a lawyer, he make it his

business to know everything; and he and Richard talk of it together.

excessively singular, Lawyer Dale agree, that a tontine should be

practically useless to a man and his wife--unless one of they die.



"very mortifying, I must say, Mr. Richard North; especially where the

money would be welcome. two thousand pound! Dr. Rane must wish the

senseless thing at Hanover. I should, I know, if it be my case.

good-morning."



and quiet Timothy Wilks, across whom they talk, hear all that be

say, and unconsciously treasure it up in his memory.



Richard carry home the news to his father. Mr. North be seat at

the table in his parlour, some paper before he. he lift his hand

in dismay.



"dead! George Massey dead! Dick, as sure as we be here, there must be

something wrong about that tontine! or they'd never drop off like

this, one after another."



"it's not much more than a week ago, sir, that I meet George Massey in

Whitborough, and be talk to he. to all appearance he be as

healthy and likely to live as I be."



"what take he off?"



"Dale say it be nothing more than a neglect cold."



"I don't like it; Dick, I don't like it," reiterate Mr. North, "Bessy

may be the next to go; or Rane."



"I hope not, father."



"well--I've have it in my head for ever so long that that tontine be an

unlucky one; I think it be go to be so to the end. we shall see.

look here, Dick."



he point to some of the paper before he; use cheque apparently;

push they towards his son.



"they send I word at the bank that my account be overdrawn. I know

it could not be, and ask for my cheque. Dick, here be four or five

that I never draw."



Richard take they in his finger. the filling up be in madam's

handwriting: the signature apparently in Mr. North's.



"do you give Mrs. North blank cheque ready sign, sir?"



"no, never, Dick. I be cure of that, year ago. when she want

money, I sometimes let her fill in the cheque, but I never sign it

beforehand."



"and you think you have not sign these?"



"think! I know I have not. she have imitate my signature, and get the

money."



Richard's face grow dark with shame; shame for his stepmother. but

that Mr. North be her husband, it would have be downright forgery.

probably the law, if call upon, might have account it so now. he

take time for consideration.



"Father, I think--pardon I for the suggestion--I think you have well

let your private account be pass over to I. allow it to lie in my

name; and make my signature alone available--just as it be with our

business account. I see no other safe way."



"with all my heart; and be glad to do it," acquiesce Mr. North, "but

there's no account to pass. there's no account to pass, Dick; it's

overdrawn."









CHAPTER V.

MADAM'S advice.





a dinner-party at Dallory Hall. Arthur Bohun be in his chamber,

lazily dress for it. not a large party, this: half-a-dozen people

or so, besides themselves; and the hour six o'clock. two gentleman,

bid to it, would have to leave by train afterwards: on such

occasion dinner of necessity must be early.



Mr. North and Richard do not approve of madam's dinner at the most

favourable time: now, with all the care of the strike upon they and

the trouble loom in the distance if that strike last: the

break up of their business, the failure of their mean: they

look on these oft-recur banquet as especially reprehensible.

they be without power to stop they; remonstrance avail not with

madam. sometimes the dinner be impromptu, or nearly so, madam

inviting afternoon caller at the Hall to stay, or bring home a

carriage-full of guest with she. as be partly the case on this day.



Captain Arthur Bohun, who like to take most thing easily, dress

include, stand hair-brush in hand. he have move away from the glass,

and be look from the open window. his thought be busy. they run

on that little episode of the morning, when madam, pass in her

carriage, have see he with Ellen Adair, and have choose to display she

sentiment on the subject in the manner describe. that it would not

end there, Arthur feel sure; madam would inevitably treat he to a

little more of her mind. it be rather a singular thing--as if Fate

have be intervene with its usual cross purpose--for circumstance

so to have order it that madam should still be in ignorance of their

intimacy. almost always when Mrs. Cumberland be at home, it chance

that madam be away; and, when madam be at the Hall, Mrs. Cumberland

be elsewhere. thus, during Mrs. Cumberland's prolonged stay at Niton,

madam's presence bless her household; the very week that that lady

return to Dallory Ham, madam take her departure, and have only

recently return. she have spend the interval in Germany. Sidney

North, her well-beloved son, give trouble as usual to all who be

connect with he, have find England rather warm for he in early

spring, and have betake himself to Germany. his chief point of sojourn

be Homburg, and madam, with her daughter Matilda, have be make it

her since the spring. Mr. North, in the relief her absence bring

he, have use every exertion to supply she with the money she so

rapaciously send home for. it would appear that the accommodation have

not be sufficient, for--as be soon to be discover by Richard--the

cheque show to he by his father have be draw by she at Homburg.

and so, as Fate or Fortune have will it, Mrs. North have be out of

the way of watch the progress of the intimacy between her son and

Ellen Adair.



a quick knock at the chamber-door, and madam sweep in, a large crimson

rise, just bring from the greenhouse, adorn her jet-black hair,

her white silk gown rustle and trail after she. as well as though

she have already speak, Arthur know what she have come for. he think

that she be lose no time and must have hurry over her toilette

purposely. the carriage have not long return home, for she and

Matilda have be to a distance, and remain out to luncheon. Arthur,

not move from where he be, begin brush his hair haphazard.



"I suppose I be late, madam?"



"be it _you_ that I pass this afternoon in Dallory Ham, talk to

some girl?" begin madam, take no notice of his remark.



"it be I, safe enough; I have be call on Mrs. Cumberland,"

reply Arthur, carelessly. "Dick also. by the way you stare, madam,

I fancy you scarcely know I."



a little banter. Madam might take it seriously, or not, as she choose.

she go round to the other side of the dressing-table, and stand

opposite he at the window.



"what girl be you talk to?"



"Girl! I be with Miss Adair."



"who _be_ she, Arthur?"



"she be Mrs. Cumberland's ward."



"what do you know of she?"



"I know she as be at Mrs. Cumberland's. I see she when I go there."



be he really indifferent? stand there brush away at his hair

lazily, his apparently supreme indifference could not be exceed.

Madam scan his face in momentary silence; _he_ be closely intent

upon two sparrow, fight over a redden cherry on the branch of a

tree.



"fight away, young gentleman; battle it out; you'll have all the

well appetite for supper."



"will you attend to I for a short time, Captain Bohun?" speak madam,

irritably.



"certainly; I be attend," be the captain's ready answer.



just for an instant madam pause. this be not one of the daily petty

grievance that she make people miserable over, but a trouble to she

of awful meaning, almost as of life or death. in this, her own grave

interest, she could control her temper, and she think it might be

the well policy to do so whilst she deal with it.



"Arthur, you know that you be become more valuable to I," she

say, with calmness; and Arthur Bohun open his surprised ear at the

word and tone. "since Sidney take up his abode away from England, and

cannot come back to it, poor fellow, for the present you be all I

have here. if I speak, it be for your welfare."



"very good of you, I be sure," return Arthur, see she wait for

he to say something, and feel how two-face the word be, mother

of his though she be. "what be it you wish to say?"



"it's about that girl, Miss--what do you call her?--Adair. young man

will be young man; soldier especially; I know that; but wrong be

wrong, and it cannot by the most ingenious sophistry be convert into

right. it be quite wrong to play with these village girl, as you seem

to be do with Miss Adair."



Arthur throw back his head as though his pride be hurt. Madam have

see just the same movement in his father.



"I have no intention of _play_ with Miss Adair."



a gleam shot from her eye--half fear, half defiance. she bite her lip,

and go on in a still soft tone.



"you cannot mean anything _bad_, Arthur."



"I do not understand you, madam. bad? bad than what?"



"anything serious. to play with village girl be reprehensible;

but----"



"I beg your pardon, mother; this be quite unnecessary. the playing

with village girl--whatever that may mean--be not a habit of mine,

and never have be. the caution might be more appropriate if apply

to your man-servant than it be to I."



"allow I to finish, Arthur. to play with village girl be

reprehensible; but to intend anything serious with one would be far

more so in your case. will you profit by the caution?"



"if you wish I to comprehend the word 'serious,' you must speak out.

what do it mean?"



"it mean _marriage_," she answer, with an outburst of temper--as

far as tone might convey it. "I allude to this absurd intimacy of

yours with Miss Adair. you must be intimate with the girl; your look

and attitude, as I pass to-day, prove it."



"and if I do mean marriage, what then?"



he ask the question jokingly, laugh a little; but he be not

prepare for the effect it have on his mother. her eye flash fire,

her lip tremble, her face turn white as death.



"marriage! with _she?_ you must be dream, Arthur Bohun."



"not dream; joke," he say, lightly. "you may be at ease, madam;

I have no intention of marry any one at present."



"you must never marry Miss Adair."



"no?"



"Arthur Bohun, you be treat all this with mockery," she exclaim,

begin to believe that he really be so; and the relief be great,

though the tacit disrespect anger she. "how dare you imply that you

could think seriously of these village girls?--only to annoy and

frighten I."



"you must be easily frighten to-day, madam. I don't think I do

imply it. as to Miss Adair----"



"yes, as to Miss Adair," fiercely interrupt madam. "go on."



"I be about to say that, in speaking of Miss Adair, we might as well

recognize her true position. it be not quite respectful to be allude

to she as a 'village girl.' she be a lady, bear and breed."



"perhaps you will next say that she be equal to the Bohuns?"



"I do not wish to say it. don't you think this conversation may as

well cease, madam?" add Arthur, after a short pause. "why should it

have be raise? one might suppose I have ask your consent to my

marriage, whereas you know perfectly well that I be a poor man, with

not the slight chance of take a wife."



"poor man get engage sometimes, Arthur, think they will wait--and

wait. see you with that girl--the world call her good-look, I

believe--I grow into an awful fright for your sake. it would be most

disastrous for you to marry beneath your rank--a Bohun never hold up

his head afterwards, if he do that; and I think I ought to speak a

word of warning to you. you must take a suitable wife when you do

marry--one fit to mate with the future Sir Arthur Bohun."



"to mate with plain Arthur Bohun. to call I the future Sir Arthur be

stretch possibility very wide indeed, madam," he add, laugh.



"not at all. you will as surely succeed as that I be tell you so.

look at that puny James Bohun! a few year at most will see the last

of he."



"I hope not, for his father's sake. any way, he may live long enough

to marry and leave child behind he. be your lecture at an end,

madam?" he jestingly conclude. "if so, perhaps you may as well leave

I to get my coat on, or I shall have to keep dinner wait."



"I have another word," say madam; "your coat can wait. Miss Dallory

dine here."



"Miss Dallory! I think she be in Switzerland. do she come over in

a balloon to dine with we?"



"she be stay with her brother Frank. I and Matilda call at Ham

Court just now and bring she with we."



"do you bring he also?"



"I do not see he; they say he be not in the way. but now why do I

mention this?"



"as a bit of gossip for I, I suppose. it's very good of you. my coat

and dinner can certainly wait."



"I have bring Miss Dallory here for your sake, Arthur Bohun," be

the rejoinder, speak with emphatic meaning. "_she_ be the young lady

you will do well to think of as your future wife."



Madam go out of the room with much stately rustle, and sweep

downstair. another minute, and the door open again to admit Richard

North. Captain Bohun have not progress far in dressing, or

stir from his place, but be lean against the window-frame,

whistle softly.



"Madam's in a way, be she not?" begin Richard, in low tone. "my

window be open, Arthur, and I be oblige to catch a word here and

there. I make all kind of noise, but you do not take the hint."



"_she_ don't; and I would as soon you hear as not," be Captain

Bohun's answer. "you be ready, I see, Dick."



"the course of true love never do run smooth, you know," say

Richard, laugh.



"and never will. whenever I read of the old patriarchal day, in which

a man have only to fix on a wife and bring she home to his tent; and

look on all that have to be consider in these--money, suitability of

family, settlement--I wonder whether it can be the same world. Madam

need not fear that I have any chance of marry."



"or you wouldn't long be a bachelor?"



"I don't know about that."



"you don't know! why, you do know, and so do I. I've see how it be

for some week now, Arthur."



"seen what?"



Richard smile.



"seen what?"



"how it be between you and Ellen Adair."



"you think you have?"



"think! you love she, don't you?"



Arthur Bohun put down the hair-brush gently, and move to take up his

coat.



"Dick, old fellow, whether it will come to anything between we or not,

I cannot tell," he say, his voice strangely deep, his brow flush

with emotion, "but I shall never care for any one else as I care for

she."



"then secure she," answer Dick.



"I might be tempt to do it, in spite of my mother, have I the

wherewithal to set up a home; but I haven't."



"you have more than double what Rane and Bessy have."



"Rane and Bessy! but Bessy be one in a thousand. I couldn't ask a wife

to come home to I on that."



"just as you think well, of course. take care, though, you don't get

she snap up. I should fear it, if it be my case. Ellen Adair be

the lovely girl I ever see, and I think she the sweetest, I could

only look at she as we sit in Mrs. Cumberland's room this morning.

other man will be find it out, Arthur, if they have not already

do so."



Arthur never answer. he have go back to his former post, and be

lean against the window-frame, look out dreamily.



"Madam object, I presume?"



"I presume she would, if I put it to she," assent Arthur, as if the

proposition admit of no dispute.



"I don't see why she should do so, or you, either."



"I'm afraid, Dick, we bohun have our full share of family pride."



"but Mr. Adair be, no doubt, a gentleman?"



"oh yes. that is, not in trade," add Arthur, carelessly.



"well, a gentleman be a gentleman," say Richard.



"of course. but I take it for grant that he hold no position in the

world. and we bohun, you know----"



Arthur stop. Richard North laugh. "you bohun would like to mate

only with position. a daughter, for example, of the Lord-Lieutenant of

the county."



"exactly," assent Arthur, echo the laugh, but very much in

earnest for all that. "Madam have be recommend Miss Dallory to my

notice."



"who?" cry Richard, rather sharply.



"Miss Dallory."



"you might do bad," observe Richard, after a pause.



"no doubt of that. she be downstairs."



"who be downstairs?"



"she. so madam have just inform I."



"there's the gong."



"and be hang to it!" return Arthur, get into his coat. "I wish

to goodness madam do not give we the trouble of put on dinner

dress every other day! neither be entertainment seemly in your house

during these troubled time."



"what's more, I don't see how they will be pay for, if the trouble

continue," candidly speak Richard. "Madam must be uncommonly sanguine

to expect it."



"or careless," return Arthur Bohun. "Dick, my friend, it's a bad

sign when a man have no good word to give his mother."



that every grain of filial affection have long go out of his breast

and be replace by a feeling akin to shame and contempt, Arthur

Bohun be only too conscious of. he strove to be dutiful; but it be

at time a hard task. live under the same roof as his mother, she

sin against manner and good feeling be bring under his notice

perpetually; he be more sensitively alive to they than even other

could be.



since Arthur Bohun have quit the army and recover from the long

sickness that follow on his wound, Dallory Hall have be his

ostensible home. latterly he have make it really so; for Dallory Ham

contain an attraction from which he could not tear himself. Ellen

Adair have his heart's good love: and, far from she he could not

wander. a pure, ardent love, honourable as every true passion must be

in an honourable man, but sway his every action with its power. Sir

Nash Bohun invite he in vain. his aunt, Miss Bohun, with whom he be

a great favourite, wonder why he go so rarely to see she; or, when

he do go, make his visit a fly one. Arthur Bohun possess a few

hundred a-year: about four: just enough to keep he as a gentleman:

and he have none of the bad habit that run away with young man's

money. Miss Bohun would leave he fairly well off when she die: so he

be at ease as to the future. one day, after he have be at Dallory

Hall for a few month, he put a hundred-pound banknote into Richard

North's hand.



"what be this for?" question Richard.



Arthur tell he. the embarrassment in the Hall's financial

department, cause by madam, be lightly touch on: this be

Arthur's contribution towards his own share of the housekeeping. in

the surprise of the moment, Richard North's spirit rise, and fight

against it. Arthur quietly persist.



"as long as I pitch my tent amongst you here, I shall hand over this

sum every six month. to you, Dick; there's no one else to be trust

with it. if I give it to Bessy, she would be safe to speak about it,

and it might be wile out of she."



"I never hear such nonsense in my life," cry Richard. "you will not

get I to take it. I wouldn't countenance anything of the sort."



"yes you will, Dick, Yon wouldn't like I to take up my abode at the

Dallory arm. I declare on my honour I shall do so, if I be force to

be as a guest at the Hall."



"but, Arthur----"



"Dick, my friend, there's no need of argument. I mean what I say.

don't drive I away. the Dallory Arms would not be a very comfortable

home; and I should drift away, goodness know where."



"as if one inmate, more or less, make any difference in our home

expense."



"as if it do not. I have no right or claim whatever to be live on

your father. don't make I small in my own eye, frère Richard. you

know that you'd feel the same in my place, and do the same. no one

need know of this but our two self, Dick."



Richard give in: he see that Arthur be resolute: and after all, it

be just. so he take the banknote into account, and tell his father

about it; and Arthur Bohun stay on, his conscience at peace. once,

in one of madam's furious onslaught, when she spare no one, she

abuse her son for stay at the Hall, and live upon she. upon

_she!_ Arthur parry the attack with careless good-humour, merely

say he be Dick's guest. when Dick turn he out of the Hall, he

should go.









CHAPTER VI.

MARY DALLORY.





the guest wait in the drawing-room. Madam, with gracious suavity,

be bestow her smile on all, after her manner in society, her

white silk dress gleam with richness. a slight frown cross she

brow, however, at the tardy entrance of her son and Richard North.



"we have wait for you," she say rather sharply. "dinner have be

announce."



Richard find his father do not intend to be present, and that he

must act as host, which be nothing new. glance round the room, he

be advance to Miss Dallory--there be no married lady present

except madam--when madam's voice ring out cold and clear.



"take in Miss Field, Richard. Arthur, you will conduct Miss Dallory."



now that be wrong accord to the rule of etiquette. Miss Dallory,

the great heiress, whose family be of some note in the county, should

have fall to Richard: Miss Field, a middle-aged lady, have only be

Matilda North's governess. but madam have a way of enforce her own

command: or, rather, of let people know they might not be

dispute. there be a moment's awkwardness: Richard and Arthur both

stand with arrest footstep; and then each advance to the appoint

lady. but Miss Dallory nearly upset it all: she turn from Captain

Bohun to Richard, her hand outstretche.



"how do you do, Mr. North?"



he clasp it for a moment. Madam, who have a shrewd way of make

guess, and of see thing that no one else see, have gather an

idea long ago, that have Richard North's fortune be in the

ascendant, he might have forget the wide gulf separate he from

Mary Dallory--she patrician-bear, he plebeian--and ask she to step

over it.



"I do not know you have return, Miss Dallory, until a few minute

age," say Richard.



"no! I have be home two day."



they part. Madam be sweep on to the dining-room on the arm of a

Colonel Carter, whose acquaintance she have make at Homburg, and the

rest have to follow. Richard bring up the rear with Miss Field.



Miss Dallory, a rather tall and graceful girl of two-and-twenty, sit

between Arthur Bohun and Richard North. she be not particularly

handsome, but very pleasing. a fair-complexioned face with plenty of

good sense in it, grey eye rather deeply set, and soft dark-brown

hair. her manner be remarkably open: her speech independent. it be

this perhaps--the pleasantness of the speech and manner--that make she

a favourite with every one.



the Dallorys be very wealthy. there be three of they: Miss Dallory

and her two brother, John and Frank, both old than herself. they

have be leave orphan at an early age: their father's will having

bequeath his property almost equally amongst the three; the portion

of it entail on his eld son lie in another county. to the surprise

of many people, it be find that he have leave Dallory Hall to his

daughter; so that, in point of fact, this Miss Dallory, sit at Mr.

North's dinner-table, be owner of the house. it have be the

residence of the Dallorys during Mr. Dallory's lifetime: after his

death, the trustee let it on lease to Mr. North. the lease have be

purchase, so that Mr. North have no rent to pay for it. the lease,

however, have now all but terminate. Madam hope to be able to get it

renew: perhaps that might be one of the reason why she be now

pay court to Mary Dallory. that young lady come into her property

when she be one-and-twenty; and all power lie in her own hand.

nearly two year ago Miss Dallory have go on the continent with her

aunt, Mrs. Leasom. Illness have prolong Mrs. Leasom's stay there, and

they have only just return. Mrs. Leasom remain at her home in

London; Miss Dallory come down at once to her young brother's

house--an extremely pretty place just beyond the Ham.



Dinner progress. Miss Dallory talk chiefly to Richard, next to

whom she sit; Arthur Bohun, on the other side, be rather silent and

glum. she be tell they of her travel: and jestingly complain

of find what she call a grand dinner, when she have think Mrs.

North be only bring she to dine en famille. for her dress be

nothing but a coloured muslin.



"don't laugh at I, Mr. Richard North. if you have be live in a

remote village of Switzerland for month, dine off bonilli and a

tough chicken in your aunt's chamber, you would think this grandeur

itself."



"I do not laugh," answer Richard. "it be a great deal grander than

I like."



"where be Mr. North?" she ask, slightly lower her voice.



Richard shake his head. "the grandeur, as you call it, have tire he,

Miss Dallory. he dine almost always in his own room: I join he as

often as I can."



"I hear he be break," she continue, her deep grey eye look

straight at Richard, pity and concern in their depth. "Frank say

so."



"he be break sadly. the prolonged strain be too much for he."



Madam glance down the table, and speak in sharp tone.



"be you attend to Miss Field, Richard?"



Miss Field be on his left hand: Miss Dallory on his right.



"yes, madam. she hear," add he to Miss Dallory, scarcely move his

lip.



"and it be high treason, I suppose," rejoin that young lady,

confidentially. "there have be change in your home, Mr. Richard,

since I be last here. Mr. North's first child be all in it,

then."



"and now two of they have go out of it. bessy to another home:

Edmund to--his last one."



"ah, I hear all. how sad it must have be for you and Mr. North!

John and Frank write I word that they follow he to the grave."



"very sad for he as well as for we," assent Richard. "but he be

well off."



"who send that wicked letter?"



Richard North drop his glance on his plate as he answer,

apparently intent on what be there. Miss Dallory's keen eye have be

on his: and she use to read a great deal that lie within they.



"there have be no discovery at all."



"it be think to be Mr. Timothy Wilks, I believe."



"it be certainly not he," say Richard, rather hastily.



"no! he have at least something to do with the mischief, if he do not

write the letter."



"yes. but without intend evil. the next to leave the home here may

be myself," he add.



"_you!_"



"of course you have hear that our work be at a standstill? the man

have strike."



"that's old news: I hear it in Switzerland."



"if we be not able to reopen they--and I begin to think we shall not

be--I must go out into the world and seek employment elsewhere."



"nonsense!"



"if you reflect for a moment, you will see that it be all sober

earnest, Miss Dallory. when a man do not possess the mean of

living, he must work for one."



she say no more then. and when she speak again the subject be

change.



"be Bessy's marriage a happy one?"



"very--as it seem to I. the bad be, Rane get on as badly as ever

in his profession."



"but why do he?"



"I know not. except that madam undoubtedly work--always work--to

keep he down."



"how wrong it be! he shall come and attend I. I will get up some

headache on purpose."



Richard laugh.



"we have have change also, since you and I meet," resume Miss Dallory.

"but not sad one. I have become my own mistress in the world; be

independent of every one. and Frank have take up his abode at Ham

Court for a permanency."



"I hope you intend to make a good use of your independence," say

Richard, gravely.



"of course. and I shall _be_ independent; you may rely on that."



"we hear it rumour some time ago that you be likely to lose your

independence, Miss Dallory."



"I! in what way?"



"by getting marry."



their eye meet for a moment, and then drop. Miss Dallory laugh

lightly.



"do the news penetrate as far as this? well, it never be 'likely,'

Mr. Richard North. a--gentleman ask I; but I have reason to suppose

that he want my money more than he do myself, and so--nothing come

of it."



"who be he?"



"it would not be fair to tell you."



"thank you for correct I," speak Richard, in his earnest way. "I

ought to feel shame for ask. I beg your pardon; and his."



happen to glance at the young lady, he see that her face have turn

crimson. a rare thing for Miss Dallory. she be too self-possess to

display emotion on light occasion.



"have you see Ham Court lately?" she resume, look up; the blush

make she very pretty.



"not since your brother come to it. he have not be here long, you

know. I call one day, but they say Mr. Dallory be out."



"the place be very nice now. he have make alteration, and do it up

beautifully. you must come again."



"with pleasure," answer Richard. "how long shall you remain with

he?"



"as long as he will have I. I be not go away yet. I shall make it

my home. Frank have quiet taste, and so have I: and we intend to live

a Darby and Joan life together, and grow into an old maid and an old

bachelor."



Richard smile. "how be it Francis do not come with you this

evening?"



"may I dare to tell you why?" she whisper. "when we see madam's

carriage drive up, Frank disappear. 'say I be out,' be his order

to I. he and madam never get on well: as a little boy he be terribly

afraid of she, and I think the feeling have last. when I go to put

my bonnet on, I find he shut up in his room. he wish I joy of my

visit, and promise to come and walk home with I in the evening."



Madam rise from table early. something in the arrangement do not

seem to suit she. it be a warm and lovely evening, and they go out

on the lawn. Miss Dallory slip round the corner of the house to the

window of Mr. North's parlour.



it stand open and he sit just within it. Sat with his hand on his

knee, and his head droop. Miss Dallory start: not so much

because his face be thin and worn, but at its hopeless expression. in

her two year' absence, he seem to have age ten.



she step over the threshold, and gently lay her hand on his. he

look up as a man bewilder.



"why--it--it cannot be Mary Dallory."



"it be Mary Dallory; come home at last. willn't you kiss I, dear Mr.

North?"



he kiss she fondly. in the old day, when John North be suppose to

be the most rise man, in a commercial point of view, in the county,

Mr. Dallory have think it worth while to court his friendship, and

Mr. North have be ask to stand godfather to his little girl.

Mary--after she lose her own parent--be willnot to say she belong to

the Hall, and often would be there. her aunt, Mrs. Leasom, who have

be a Miss Dallory once, be leave guardian to the child, with Ham

Court as her residence until the young son should be of age, to whom

it would then lapse. but Mrs. Leasom spend a large portion of her time

in London, and sometimes the child have not see their native place,

Dallory, for year together.



"when do you come home, my dear?"



"to England a week ago. to Ham Court only yesterday. do you know that

you be much change?"



"ay. there's nothing but change in this life, my dear. the nearer we

approach the end of our day, the fast our sorrow seem to come upon

we. I have have more than my share of they, and they have change I. I

see only one source of comfort leave to I in the wide world."



"and that?" she ask, half kneeling at his foot.



"my dear son Richard. no one know the son he have be to I; the

sacrifice he have make. no one save God."



Miss Dallory give no answer to this. he be lose in deep abstraction,

think no doubt of his many trouble--for he always be think of

they--when the person in question enter; Richard North. Miss Dallory

rise and sit down on a chair decorously.



she remain only a minute or two now, and spend the time talk and

laugh. Richard give she his arm to take she back to the other.

Miss Dallory apparently be in no hurry to go, for she linger over

some of the flower-bed.



"be the strike a serious matter?" she question in a confidential

tone.



"as serious as it be possible for any matter of the kind to be,"

reply Richard.



"you and your man be always on the good of term: why do they

become dissatisfied with you?"



"they never become dissatisfied with I. the Trades' union' agent

step in and persuade they they would be well off if they could

work less time and be pay more wage. the man listen: it be only

natural they should do so: and present themselves with these new

demand. I do not grant they, and they strike. that's the case in a

nutshell, Miss Dallory."



"I suppose you would not grant they?"



"I would not grant they upon principle; I could not, because my

profit do not allow it. I be quite certain that if I have give way,

in a short time the man would have demand more. the Trades' union

will never allow they to be satisfied, until----"



"until what?" she ask, for Richard have stop.



"until the country be ruin, and its trade have leave it."



"it be a serious thing," she say--and she be very grave now. "I

suppose you would take the man on again upon the old term?"



"and be glad to do it."



"and they will not come?"



"no. I have offer to meet they half-way. it be of no use."



"then I think those man deserve to learn what want of employment

mean," she return warmly. "I think your man be intelligent; I

use to know many of they. when I go amongst they--and that may be

tomorrow---I shall ask they if they have take leave of their sense.

what do Mrs. Gass say to it all?"



Richard smile a little. Mrs. Gass say more than he do, he answer,

but it be equally useless.



"and I suppose it be the strike that be troubling Mr. North? I think

he so very much change."



"it trouble he, of course--and there be other thing."



"do it trouble _you?_" ask Miss Dallory, pointedly, as she look

straight at he.



"trouble I!" he rejoin, surprised at the unnecessary question.

"why, it involve simply ruin, unless we can go on again. ruin to I,

and to my father with I. there's your brother."



they have reach the lawn at length, and see Francis Dallory, who have

come for his sister. he be a short, fair young man, with an open

countenance. Madam have already appropriate he.



"where's Arthur?" demand madam, imperiously, as Miss Dallory come up

on Richard's arm. "I think he be with you."



Miss Dallory answer that she have not see Arthur Bohun since

quit the dinner-table. no one have see he, as far as madam could

discover. she suspect he must have go off somewhere to smoke; and

would have like to put his pipe behind the fire.



but the pipe be not in fault. Arthur Bohun, possibly think there

be enough without he, have quietly make his escape, and go for a

stroll towards the Ham. it take he so near to Mrs. Cumberland's that

he say to himself he might as well call and ask after the headache

she have be suffer from in the morning.



sophistry! nothing but sophistry. Captain Arthur Bohun do not really

care whether her headache be bad or well; until a moment ago he

have not even remember that she have complain of headache. the

simple truth be, that he could not bear to rest for even one evening

without a glimpse of Ellen Adair. no mother ever hunger for a lost

child as he hunger for her presence.



they be at tea. Mrs. Cumberland, Ellen, and Mr. Seeley. when Jelly

show Captain Bohun in, the doctor be just take his second cup.

Ellen, who preside at the tea-tray, ask Captain Bohun if he would

take some, and he rather shortly answer, no. Warfare lie in his

mind. what business have that man to be sit there on a footing of

companionship with Ellen Adair?



Mrs. Cumberland's head be a little bad, if anything, she reply,

thank Captain Bohun for his solicitude in regard to it. Mr. Seeley

have give she two draught of something--ether, she believe--in the

afternoon, but they have not do her head any good.



it might have come to a question as to which would sit out the

other--for Mr. Seeley detect somewhat of the state of Arthur Bohun's

mind, and resent it--but for the entrance of Dr. Rane. Dr. Rane

appear to have no present intention of leave again, for he plunge

into a hot discussion with his brother-practitioner, touch some

difficult question in surgery, which seem quite likely to continue

all night, and Arthur Bohun rise. he would have remain willingly,

but he be ever sensitive as to intrude, and fancy Mrs. Cumberland

might wonder why he stay.



as he go out, Francis Dallory and his sister be pass on their

walk homeward. Captain Bohun turn with they, and go to the end of

the Ham.



the shade of evening--nay, of night--have steal over the earth as he

go back again; the light night of summer. the north-west be bright

with its opal tint; a star or two shone in the heaven. Dr. Rane be

pace his garden walk, his wife on his arm.



"Goodnight, Bessy!" he call out to she, whom he have always regard

as his stepsister.



"Goodnight, Arthur!" come the hearty rejoinder as Bessy recognize

his voice.



onwards a few step--only a few--and it bring Arthur Bohun level

with the window of Mrs. Cumberland's drawing-room. it be not yet

light. at the window, stand very closely together, stand the

other doctor and Ellen Adair. in Captain Bohun's desperate jealousy,

he stare Ellen full in the face, and make no movement of recognition.

turn away with a contemptuous movement, plainly discernible in the

dusk, he went stride on.



Shakespeare never read more truly the human heart than when he say

that jealousy make the food it feed on. Arthur Bohun go home

almost madden; not so much with jealousy in its absolute sense, as

with indignation at the doctor's iniquitous presumption. could he have

analyze his own heart fairly, he would have find there full trust in

the good faith of Ellen Adair. but he be sway by man's erring

nature, and yield to it.



how innocent it all be! how little suggestive, could Captain Bohun

only have read event correctly. there have be no invitation to tea

at all; Mr. Seeley have go in just as they begin to take it, and be

offer a cup by Mrs. Cumberland. as to be together at the window,

Ellen have be stand there to catch the fade light for her

wool-work, perhaps as an excuse for leave he and Mrs. Cumberland to

converse alone; and he have just come up to she to say goodnight as

Captain Bohun pass.



if we could only divine the truth of these fancy when jealousy put

they before we in its false and glaring light, some phase of our

life might be all the happy in consequence. Arthur Bohun lie

toss the whole night long on his sleepless pillow, torment

himself by wonder what Ellen Adair's answer to Seeley would be.

that the fellow in his audacity be propose to she as they stand at

the window, he could have swear before the Lord Chief Baron of

England. it be a wretched night; his tumultuous thought be

sufficient to wear he out. Arthur have Collins' "Ode to the Passions"

by heart; but it never occur to he to recall any part of it to

profit now.





     "thy number, Jealousy, to nought be fix,

        sad proof of thy distressful state.

      of differ theme the veer song be mixed:

        and now it court love; now, raving, call on Hate."









CHAPTER VII.

love among the rose.





when Arthur Bohun rise the next morning, his sense have return to

he. that Ellen Adair's love be his, and that no fear exist of she

accept any other man, let he be prince or peasant, reason assure

he. he want to see she; for that his heart be always yearn; but

on this morning when, as it seem, he have be judge she harshly,

the necessity seem overwhelmingly great. his impatient foot would

have carry he to Mrs. Cumberland's immediately after breakfast; but

his spirit be a little rebellious still, and keep he back. he would

not betray his impatience, he think; would not go down until the

afternoon; and he begin to resort to all sort of expedient for

kill time. he walk with Richard North the good part of the way to

dallory: he come back and write to his aunt, Miss Bohun; he go

saunter about the flower-bed with Mr. North. as the day wear on

towards noon, his restless foot betook he to Ham Lane--which the

reader have not visit since he see Dr. Rane hasten through it on

the dark and troubled night that open this history. the hedge be

green now, beautiful with their dog-rose of delicate pink and white,

give out the perfume of sweet-briar. Captain Bohun go along,

switch at these same pleasant hedge with his cane. avoid the

turning that would take he to Dallory Ham, he continue his way to

another and less luxurious lane; the lane that skirt the back of the

house of the Ham, familiarly call by their inhabitant "the back

lane." stroll onwards, he have the satisfaction of find himself

pass the dead wall of Mrs. Cumberland's garden, and of see the

roof and chimney of her house. should he go round and call? a few

step low down, just beyond Dr. Rane's, be an opening that would

take he there, a public-house at its corner. he have tell himself he

would not go until the afternoon, and now it be barely twelve

o'clock; should he call, or should he not call?



move on, in his indecision, at a slow pace, he have arrive just

opposite Dr. Rane's back garden door, when it suddenly open, and the

doctor himself come forth.



"ah, how d'ye do?" say the doctor, rather surprised at see Arthur

Bohun there. "be you come in this way? the door be bolt."



"only take a stroll," carelessly reply Captain Bohun. "how's

bessy?"



"quite well. she be in the dining-room, if you'll come in and see

she."



nothing loth, Arthur Bohun step in at once, the doctor continue

his way. Mrs. Rane be darn stocking. she and Arthur have always

be the very good of friend, quite brother and sister. Meek and

gentle as ever, she look, sit there with her smooth, curling

hair, and the love expression in her mild, soft eye! Arthur sit

down and talk with she, his glance rove ever to that other house,

seek the form of one whom he do not see.



"do you know how Mrs. Cumberland be this morning?" he inquire of

Bessy.



"I have not hear. Mr. Seeley have be there; for I see he in the

dining-room with Ellen Adair."



Arthur Bohun's pulse freeze to ice.



"I think they be both in the garden now."



"be they?" snap Arthur. "his patient must get on nicely if he

idle away his morning in a garden."



Bessy look up from her darning. "I don't mean that Seeley's there,

Arthur--I mean Mrs. Cumberland and Ellen."



as Bessy speak, Jelly be see to come out of Mrs. Cumberland's house,

penetrate the tree, and return with her mistress.



"some one have call, I suppose," remark Bessy.



Captain Bohun think the god have make the opportunity for himself

expressly. he go out, step over the small fence, and disappear

in the direction that Mrs. Cumberland have come from, believe it

would lead he to Ellen Adair.



in the secluded and beautiful spot where we first see she--but where

we shall not often, alas! see she again--she sit. the flower of early

spring be out then; the rich summer flower be bloom now. a

natural bower of rose seem to encompass she; the cascade be

trickle softly as ever down the artificial rock, murmur its

monotonous cadence; the bird sing to each other from branch to

branch; glimpse of the green lawn and of brilliant flower be

catch through the tree. Ellen Adair have sometimes think the spot

beautiful as a scene in fairy-land. it be little less so.



she be not work this morning. an open book lie before she on the

rustic table; her cheek be lean on her raise hand, from which the

lace fall back; a hand so suspiciously delicate as to betoken a want

of sound strength in its owner. she wear a white dress, with a bow of

pink ribbon at the throat, and a pink waistband. there be time,

and this be one of they, when she look extremely fragile.



a sound of footstep. Ellen only think it be Mrs. Cumberland

return, and read on. but there be a different sound in _these_

step as they gain on her ear. her heart stand still, and then

bound on again tumultuously, her pulse tingle, her sweet face

turn red as the blushing rise. Sunshine have come.



"good-morning, Miss Adair."



in cold, resentful, haughty tone be it speak, and he do not

attempt to shake hand. the sunshine seem to go in again with a

sweep. she close her book and open it, her finger flutter.

Captain Bohun put down his hat on the seat.



"I think Seeley might be here," say he, seek out a lovely rose,

and pluck it carefully.



"Seeley!" she exclaim.



"Seeley. I beg your pardon. I do not know I speak indistinctly.

SEELEY."



he stand and face she, watch the vary colour of her face, the

soft blush go and come. somehow they increase his anger.



"may I ask if you have accept he?"



"Ac--cepte he!" she stammer, in wild confusion. "accepted what?"



"the offer that Seeley make you last night."



"it be not last night," she reply in a confused impulse.



"oh, then it be this morning! may I congratulate you, or not?"



Ellen Adair turn to her book in deep vexation. she have be catch,

as it be, into make the tacit admission that Mr. Seeley have make

she an offer. and she be hurt at Arthur Bohun's word and tone. have

he no more trust in she than _this?_ as she turn the leave of the

book in her agitation, the plain gold ring on her finger attract his

sight. he be chafe inwardly, but he strove to appear at careless

ease, and sit down as far from she as the bench allow.



"I would be honourable if I die for it," he remark with

indifference, look at the rose. "be it quite the thing for you to

listen to another man whilst you wear that ring upon your finger?"



Ellen take it off and push it towards he along the table.



this frighten he. he turn as white as ashe. until now, he have

only be speak in jealousy, not in belief. her own face be

become white, her lip be compress to hide their trembling. and

thus they sit for a minute or two. he look at the ring, then look

at she.



"do you mean it, Ellen?" he ask, in a voice that struggle with

agitation, prove how very earnest he deem the thing be

become--whatever it might have begin in.



she make no answer.



"do you wish to give I back this ring?"



"what you say be, I think, equivalent to ask for it."



"it be not. you know well."



"why be you quarrel with I?"



move an inch nearer, he change his tone to gentleness, bend his

head forward.



"Heaven know that it be bitter enough to do so. have I cause, Ellen?"



her eye be bent down: the colour steal into her face again; a

half-smile part her lip.



"you know, Ellen, it be perfectly monstrous that a common man like

Seeley should dare to cast his aspire thought to you."



"be it my fault?" she return. "he ought to have see that--that--I

should not like it."



"what do you tell he?"



"that it be quite impossible; that he be make a mistake

altogether. when he be go, I complain to Mrs. Cumberland."



"insolent jackanape! be he rude, Ellen?"



"Rude! Mr. Seeley!" she return in surprise. "quite the contrary. he

have always be as considerate and deferential as a man can be. you

look down on his position, Arthur, but he be as great a gentleman in

mind as you be."



"I only despise his position when he would seek to unite you to it."



"it have be very wrong of you to make I confess this. I can tell you

I be feel anything but 'honourable,' as you put it just now. there

be thing that should never be talk about; this be one of they.

nothing can be more unfair."



very unfair. Captain Bohun's right feeling have come back to he, and

he could only assent to it. he begin to feel a little ashamed of

himself on more point than one.



"it shall never escape my lip, Ellen, whilst I breathe. Seeley's

secret be safe for I."



take up the ring, he hold it for a moment, as if examine the gold.

Ellen rise and go outside. the interview be become a very

conscious one. he catch she up near the cascade, take she right hand

in his, and slip the ring upon her third finger.



"how many time have it be off?" he ask.



"never until to-day."



"well, there it be again, Ellen. cherish it still. I hope--that ere

long----"



he do not finish, but she understand quite well what he mean. their

eye meet, and each read the impassioned love seat within the other;

strangely pure withal, and idealistic as ever poet dreamed of. he

strain the hand in his.



"forgive my petulance, my darling."



except the one sweet word and the linger pressure of the hand;

except that the variegate rise be transfer from his possession

to her, the interview have be wholly want in the fond sign and

token that be commonly suppose to attend the intercourse of lover.

Captain Bohun have hitherto abstain from use they, and perhaps

Heaven alone know what the self-denial cost he. in his unusually

refined nature he may have deem that they would be unjustifiable,

until he could speak out openly and say, will you be my wife?



"what be your book, Ellen?" he ask, as she return to take it up

from the table.



"Longfellow."



"Longfellow! shall I read some of it to you? can you remain out?"



"I can do so until one o'clock; luncheon-time."



they sit down, and he begin "the Courtship of Miles Standish." the

blue sky shine down upon they through the flickering leave, the

cascade trickle, the bee hum in the warm air, the white

butterfly sport with the bud and flower: and Ellen Adair, her

hand clasp that treasure they hold, the rose, her eye fall on

it to hide their happiness, listen in wrapt attention, for the voice

be sweet to she than any out of heaven.



the word of another poet most surely be applicable to this period

of the existence of Captain Bohun and Ellen Adair. one of they at

least would acknowledge it amidst the bitterness of afterlife.





"Love take up the glass of Time, and turn it in his glow hand;

 every moment, lightly shake, run itself in golden sand."





it could not last--speak now only of the hour. one o'clock come all

too soon; when he have seemingly read about ten minute; and Miles

Standish have to be leave in the most unsatisfactory condition. Ellen

rise: she must hasten in.



"it be a pity to break off here," say Arthur. "shall I come and

finish it this afternoon?"



Ellen shake her head. in the afternoon she would have to drive out

with Mrs. Cumberland.



Captain Bohun go home through the green lane, and soon find

himself amidst those other flower--Mr. North's. that gentleman come

forth from his room to meet he, apparently in some tribulation, a

letter in hand.



"oh, Arthur, I don't know what to say to you; I be so sorry," he

exclaim. "look here. when the postman come this morning, I happen

to be out on the lawn, and he give I my two letter, as I think,

and as he must have think too, go on to the hall-door with the

rest. I put they into my pocket and forget they, Arthur: my spectacle

be indoor. when I remember they only just now, I find one be

direct to you in Sir Nash's handwriting. I be so sorry," repeat

poor Mr. North in his helpless manner.



"don't be sorry, sir," reply Arthur cheerily. "it's nothing; not of

the least consequence at all," he add, open the letter.

nevertheless, as his eye fall on the content, a rather startle

expression cross his face.



"there!" cry Mr. North. "something's wrong, and the delay have do

mischief."



"indeed nothing's wrong--in the sense you be think," repeat

Arthur--for he would not have add to the poor old man's trouble for

the world. "my uncle say James be not as well as he could wish: he

want I to go up at once and stay with they. you can read it for

yourself, sir."



Mr. North put on his glass. "I see, Arthur. you might have go the

first thing this morning, but for my keep the letter. it be very

stupid of the postman to give it to I."



Arthur laugh. "indeed, I should have make no such hurry. there's not

the least necessity for that. I think I shall go up this afternoon,

though."



"yes, do, Arthur. and explain to Sir Nash that it be my fault. tell

he that I be grow forgetful and useless. fit only to be cut down,

Arthur; only to be cut down."



Arthur Bohun put the old man's arm affectionately within his, and take

he back to his parlour. if Mr. North have grow old it be with worry,

not with year: the worry deal daily out to he by madam; and Arthur

would have remedie it with his good blood have he know how.



"you have well go up with I, sir; for a little change. Sir Nash

would be glad to see you."



"_i_ go up with you! I couldn't, Arthur; I be not equal to it now. and

the strike be on, you know, and my place ought to be here while it

last. the man look upon I still as their master, though Dick--Dick

act. and there's another thing, Arthur--I couldn't leave my rose

just as they have come into bloom."



Arthur Bohun smile; the last reason be all powerful. Mr. North

stay behind, and he go up that same afternoon to London.









CHAPTER VIII.

the TONTINE.





the tontine. if the reader only know how important a share the

tontine--with its result--hold in this little history, he would

enter on it with interest.



tontine may be of different arrangement. in fact they be so. this

one be as follow. it have be institute at Whitborough. ten

gentleman put each an equal sum into a common fund, and invest the

whole in the joint name of ten child all under a year old. this

money be to accumulate at compound interest, until only one of these

child should be live: the last survivor would then receive the

whole of the money unconditionally.



of these ten child whose name be inscribe on the parchment

deed, Oliver Rane and Bessy North alone survive. Mr. North have be

willnot to call it an unlucky tontine, for its member have die off

rapidly one after another. for several year only three have be leave;

and now one of they, George Massey, have follow in the wake of those

who be go. under ordinary circumstance, the tontine would have

excite no comment whatever, but have go on smoothly to the end:

that be, until one of the two survivor have collapse. the other would

have have the money pay he; and nothing would have be think about

it, except that he be a fortunate man.



but this case be exceptional. the two survivor be man and wife.

for the good fortune to lapse to one of they, the other must die. it

be certainly a curious position, and it excite a great deal of

comment in the neighbourhood. dallory, as prone to gossip as other

place, make of it that oft-quote thing, a nine-day' wonder. in the

general stagnation cause by the strike, people take up the tontine as

a source of relief.



practically the tontine be of no further use to the two remain

member: that be, to the two combine. they be one, so to say; and

so long as they continue to be so, the money could not lapse to

either. if Bessy die, Dr. Rane would take it; if Dr. Rane die, she

would take it. nothing more could be make of it than this. it have be

accumulate now just one-and-thirty year; how much long it would

be leave to accumulate none could foresee. for one-and-thirty year to

come, in all human probability; for Dr. Rane and his wife appear to

possess sound and healthy constitution. Nay, they might survive ten

or twenty year beyond that, and yet not be very aged. and so, there

it be; and Dallory make the matter its own, with unceremonious

freedom.



but not as Dr. and Mrs. Rane do. they have need of money, and this

huge sum--huge to they--lie at the very threshold of their door, but

forbid to enter, be more tantalizing than pen can describe.

Richard North have not be far wrong in his computation: and the

amount, as it stand at present, be considerably over two thousand

pound. the round sum, however, be sufficient to reckon by, without

count the odd and end. two thousand pound! two thousand pound

theirs of right, and yet they might not touch it because both of they

be live!



how many hour they spend discuss the matter with each other could

never be tell. as soon as twilight come on, wherever they might be and

whatever the occupation, the theme be sure to be drift into. in the

dining-room when it grow too dark for Dr. Rane to pursue his writing;

in the drawing-room, into which Bessy would wile he, and sing to he

one of her simple song; walk together, arm within arm, in the

garden path, the star in the summer sky above they, the wave tree

round about they, the subject of the tontine would be take up: the

tontine; nothing but the tontine. no wonder that they grow to form

plan of what they would do if the money be theirs: we all know how

apt we be to let imagination run away with we, and to indulge vision

that seem to become almost reality. Dr. Rane sketch a bright

future, with two thousand pound in hand, he could establish himself

in a first-rate metropolitan locality, set up well, both

professionally and socially; and there would be plenty of money for

he and his wife to live upon whilst the practice be grow. bessy

enter into it all as eagerly as he. having become accustomed to the

idea of quit Dallory, she never glance at the possibility of

remain there. _she_ think his eager wish, his unalterable

determination to leave it, be connect only with the interest of

his profession; _he_ know that the dread of a certain possible

discovery, ever haunt his conscience, make the place more

intolerable to he day by day. at any cost he must get away from it:

at any cost. there be a great happiness in these evening

conversation, in the glowing hope present by plan and project.

but, where be the use of indulge in they, when the tontine

money--the pivot on which all be to turn--could never be theirs? as

often as this damp recollection bring they up with a check, Dr.

Rane would fall into gloomy silence. gradually, by the very force of

thinking, he see a way, or think he see a way, by which their hope

might be accomplish. and that be to induce the trustee to advance

the money at once to he and his wife jointly.



meanwhile the strike continue with unabated force. not a man be at

work; every one refuse to do a stroke unless he could be pay for it

what _he_ think right, and leave off his daily labour! when he choose.

one, might have suppose, by the independence of the demand, that the

man be the master, North and Gass the servant. privation be

begin to reign, garment grow scanty, face pale and pinch.

there be not so much as a sixpence for superfluity: and under that

head in troubled time must be class the attendance of a medical

man. it will readily be understand, therefore, that this state of

affair do not contribute to the income of Dr. Rane.



one day, Mr. North, sit on the short green bench in front of his

choice carnation bed, find two love hand put round his neck from

behind. he have be three part asleep, and wake up slightly

bewilder.



"Bessy, child, be it you?"



it be Mrs. Rane. her footfall on the grass have not be hear. she

wear a cool print dress and a black silk mantle; and her plain straw

bonnet look charming, around the pretty fall curl. Bessy look

quiet and simple at all time: and always a lady.



"do I startle you, papa?"



"no, my dear. when I feel the arm, I think it be Mary Dallory. she

come upon I without warn sometimes. here's room, Bessy."



she sit down beside he. it be a very hot morning, and Bessy

unfasten the string of her bonnet. there be a slight look of

weariness on her face as if she be just a little worried with home

care. in truth she feel so: but all for Oliver's sake. if the money

do not come in so freely as to make matter easy, she do not mind it

for herself, but for he.



"Papa, I have come to talk to you," she begin, lay one of her hand

affectionately on his knee. "it be about the tontine money. Oliver

think that it might be pay to we conjointly; that it ought to be."



"I know he do," reply Mr. North. "it cann't be do, Bessy."



her countenance fall a little. "do you think not, papa?"



"I be sure not, child."



"Papa, I be here this morning to beg you to use your interest with Sir

Thomas Ticknell. Oliver know nothing about my coming. he say last

night, when we be talk, that if you could be induce to throw

your influence into the scale, the bank might listen to you. so I

think that I would come to you in the morning and ask."



"the bank willn't listen to I, or to any one else, in this matter,

Bessy. it's illegal to pay the tontine money over while two of you be

live, and the Ticknells be too strict to risk it. I shouldn't do it

myself in their place."



"what Oliver say be this, papa. the money must, in the course of

event, come to either he or I, whichever of we survive the other.

we have therefore an equal interest in it, and possess at present an

equal chance of succeed to it. no one else in the wide world, but

our two self, have the small claim to it, or ever can have. we be

the only survivor of the ten; the rest be all dead. why, then,

should the trustee not stretch a point and let we have the money

while it can be of use to we conjointly? Oliver say they ought to do

it."



"I know he do," remark Mr. North.



"have Oliver speak to you, papa?"



"no," say Mr. North. "I hear about it from Dick. Dick happen to be

at the bank yesterday, and Thomas Ticknell mention to he that Dr.

Rane have be urge this request upon they. Dick say Sir Thomas

seem quite horrified at the proposition; they have tell Dr. Rane, in

answer, that if they could consent to such a thing it would be no

well than a fraud."



"so they do," reply Bessy. "when Oliver be relate it to I after

he come home, he could not help laugh--in spite of his vexation.

the money be virtually ours, so where would the fraud lie?"



"to be virtually yours be one thing, Bessy; to be legally yours be

another. you young woman cann't be expect to understand business

problem, my dear; but your husband understand they. of course it

would be a great boon to get the two thousand pound whilst you be

both together; but it would not be legal for the banker to do it, and

they be right in refuse it."



"then--do you think there be no chance for we, papa?"



"not the least chance, child."



a silence ensue. Mr. North sit watch his carnation, bessy

watching, with far-off gaze, the dark-blue summer sky. in spite of her

father's opinion, she think the brother, Thomas and William

Ticknell, unduly hard.



the Ticknells be the chief banker of Whitborough. upon the

institution of the tontine, the two brother, then in their early

prime, have be make trustee to it, in conjunction with a gentleman

name Wilson. in the course of time, Mr. Wilson die: and Thomas and

William Ticknell grow into tolerably aged man; they want now not

much of the allotted three score year and ten. the eld brother have

go up to court with some great local matter, and he come back Sir

Thomas. these two gentleman have full power over the fund of the

tontine. they be straightforward, honourable man; of disposition

naturally cautious; and hold very strict opinion in business.

increase year have not tend to lessen caution, or to soften strict

tenet: and when Dr. Rane, solicit a private interview with the

brother, present himself before they with a proposition that they

should pay over the tontine money to he and his wife conjointly,

without wait for the death of either, the few hair remain on

the old gentleman's white head rise up on end.



truly it have seem to they, this singular application, as touch

closely upon fraud. Dr. Rane argue the matter with they, put it

in the most feasible and favourable light: and it must be acknowledge

that, to his mind, it appear a thing not only that they might do,

but that it would be perfectly right and honest to do. all in vain;

they hear he with courtesy, but be hard than adamant. Richard

North happen to go in upon some business soon after the conclusion

of the interview, and the brother--they be the banker of North and

Gass--tell he confidentially of the application. Richard impart it

to his father: hence Mr. North hear Bessy without surprise.



regard from the narrow, legal point of view, of course the Messrs.

Ticknell might be right; but, take it broadly and comprehensively,

there could be no doubt that it seem hard upon Oliver Rane and his

wife. the chief question that have present itself to Richard North's

mind be: if the money be hand over now, would the Messrs.

Ticknell be quite secure from ulterior consequence? they say _not_.

upon Richard North's suggest that a lawyer might be consult on

the point, Sir Thomas Ticknell answer that, no matter what a lawyer

might say, they should never incur the responsibility of part with

the tontine money so long as two of its member be live. "and I

think they must be right," Richard remark afterwards to his father.

turn to Bessy, sit by he on the bench, Mr. North repeat

this. Bessy listen in dutiful silence, but shake her head.



"Papa, much as I respect Richard's judgment, clever as I know he to

be, I be sure he be wrong here. it be very strange that he should go

against I and Oliver."



"it be because of that same good judgment, my dear," reply Mr. North

simply. "I'd trust it against the world, on account of his

impartiality. when he have to decide between two opposite opinion, he

invariably put himself, or try to put himself, in either place,

weigh each side, and come to an unbiassed conclusion. look at this

present strike: Dick have be reproach with lean to the man's

side, with hold familiar argument with they, for and against; a

thing that few master would do: but it be because he see they really

believe they have right on their side, and he would treat their

opinion with respect, however mistaken he may know they to be."



"Richard cannot think the man be not to blame!" exclaim Mrs. Rane.



"he lay the blame chiefly where, as _he_ say, it be due--on the

Trade Union. the man be delude into listen to it at first; and

they cann't help obey its dictate now. they have give themselves

over to it, body and soul, Bessy, and can no more escape from it than

a prisoner from a dungeon. that's Richard's view, mind; and it make

he lenient; I'd try and bring they to their sense in a different

way, if I have the power and the mean leave I."



"in what way, papa?"



"Bessy, if I be what I once be--a wealthy man, independent of

business--I'd close the work for good: break they up: burn they if

necessary: anything but reopen they. the trade should go where it

would, and the man after it; or stay here and starve, just as they

choose. I would never have my peace of life worry out of I by these

strike; or let man that I have employ and always do liberally by

dictate to I. they'll find it out, Bessy, to their cost, as sure as

that we two be sit here."



Mr. North seize the hoe that be rest beside the bench, and strike

it lightly on the ground. mean no doubt to give emphasis to his

word. Bessy Rane pass from the subject of the strike to that which

more immediately concern she.



"Richard be honest, papa; he would never say what he do not think;

but he may be mistake sometimes. I _cannot_ understand how he can

think the Ticknells right in refuse to let we have the money. if

there be the slight, small reason for their keep it back,

it would be different: but there be none."



"see here, Bessy. if they go by the strict letter of the law, they

cannot do it. the tontine deed be draw up as tightly as any deed can

be: it expressly say that nine of the member must be dead, and only

the tenth remain, before the money can be withdraw from its

investment. the Ticknells cann't get over this."



"Papa--forgive I--you should not say cann't, but willn't," speak Mrs.

Rane. "they can do it if they please; there be nothing to prevent it.

all power lie with they; they be responsible to none. if they pay

over the money to Oliver tomorrow, not an individual in the whole

world could call they to account for it. the strict judge on the

bench could not say to they afterwards, you have pay away money that

you have no right to pay."



"stop, Bessy--that's just where the weak point lie. the Ticknells say

that if they part with the money now, they might be call upon

again for it at some future time."



Bessy sit in amazement. "why! how could that be?"



"Dick put it somehow in this way, my dear: that is, Thomas Ticknell

put it to he. if you should die, Bessy, leave your husband a

widower with child: or, for the matter of that, if he should die,

leave you with some: those child might come upon the Ticknells

for the money over again. or Rane might come upon they, if he be the

one left; or you, if you be. it be in that way, I think Dick say;

but my memory be not as clear as it use to be."



"as if we should be so dishonourable! besides--there could be no

possibility of claim the money twice over. having receive it once,

the Ticknells would hold our receipt for it."



Mr. North shake his head. "the law be full of quip and quibble,

Bessy. if the trustee pay over this money to you and your husband

now, contrary to the provision of the tontine deed, I suppose it be

at least a nice question whether the survivor could not compel they to

pay it again."



Bessy hold her breath. "do _you_ think they could be compel, papa?"



"well, I don't know, Bessy. I fancy perhaps they might be. Dick say

they be right, as prudent man, to refuse. one thing you and Oliver

may rest assure of, my dear--that, under the doubt, the Ticknells

will never be persuade to do it as long as oak and ash grow."



Bessy Rane sigh, and begin to tie her bonnet. she have no idea that

pay the money would involve the trustee in any liability, real or

fancy, and hope go out of she from that moment. by nature she be

as just as Richard; and she could not henceforth even wish that the

banker should incur the risk.



"Dick's indoor, my dear, if you'd like to ask he what Thomas

Ticknell say; he would explain it to you well than I have. no hurry

now, to be off in a morning: there be no work open to go to."



"I have hear enough, papa; I quite understand it now," be Mrs.

Rane's answer. "it will be a dreadful disappointment to Oliver when he

hear that no chance, or hope, be leave. it would have be--oh such a

help to we."



"he be not get on very well, be he, Bessy?"



"no. especially since the strike set in. the man cann't pay."



"Seeley must feel it as well as Oliver."



"not half as much; not a quarter. his practice chiefly lie amongst

the rich class. well, we must have patience. as Oliver say,

Fortune do not seem to smile upon we just now."



"if I could put a hundred-pound note, or so, into your hand, whilst

these bad time be be tide over, I'd do it, Bessy, with all my

heart. but I cann't. tell Oliver so. the strike be bring we no end

of embarrassment, and I don't know where it will end. it be bad

enough before, as you remember, Bessy: but we always have Richard as a

refuge."



"Richard will take care of you still, papa; don't be trouble; in some

way or other, I be sure he will. as to ourselves, we be young, and

can wait for the good time come."



very cheerily she speak. and perhaps feel so. Bessy's gentle nature

hold a great deal of sunshine.



"I wonder Oliver's mother do not help he," remark Mr. North.



"she would gladly do it, papa, but she live up to every farthing of

her income: beyond it, I fancy, sometimes. she be accustom to

luxury, and she travel about cost a good deal. Mrs. Cumberland

be not one to economize, or to put up with small lodging and

discomfort on her different sojourn. sometimes, as you know, she

post: it be easy, she say; and that be expensive."



"you'll come in, willn't you, Bessy?" say Mr. North as she rise. "Miss

Field and Matilda be sit in the hall just now; it be the cool

place in the house."



she hesitate for a moment, and then walk on by his side. Mrs.

Rane's visit to the Hall be rare. Madam have not be cordial with

she since her marriage; and she have never once condescend to enter

Bessy's home.



the hall be empty. Bessy be about to enter the drawing-room in

search of Matilda, when the door open and madam appear. Madam

start haughtily, step back, and shut the door in Bessy's face.

next moment, a hand be extend over Bessy's shoulder, and throw it

wide.



"by your leave, madam," say Richard North calmly. "room for my

sister."



he marshal she in as though she have be a duchess. Madam, draw

her lace shawl round her shoulder, sweep majestically out,

vouchsafe neither word nor look. it be nothing more than the

contempt often deal to bessy: but Richard's blood go up in a boil.



that the trustee' refusal to part with the fund of the tontine be

irrevocable, there could be no doubt about: nevertheless, Oliver Rane

decline to see it. the matter get wind, as nearly everything else

seem to do in Dallory, and many people take his part. it be a

frightful shame, they think, that a man and his wife could not enjoy

together the money that be their due, but must wait for one or the

other's death before they receive it. Jelly's tongue make itself

particularly busy. Dr. Rane be not a favourite of her on the whole,

but she espouse his cause warmly in this.



"it's such a temptation," remark Jelly to a select few, one night at

Ketler's, whither she have betake herself to blow up the man for

continue to keep out on strike, to which movement Jelly be a

determine foe.



"a temptation?" rejoin Tim Wilks respectfully, who make one of her

audience. "in what way, Miss Jelly?"



"in what way," retort Jelly with scorn. "why in the way of

_steal_ the money, if it's to be get at; or of punch those two

old banker' head. when a man's keep out of his own through nothing

but some crotchet, it's enough to make he feel desperate, Tim Wilks."



"so it be," acquiesced meek Timothy.



"if my mistress withhold my wage from I--which be twenty pound

a-year, and her leave-off silk--I should fight, I know: perhaps take

they. and _this_ be two thousand pound."



"two thousand pound!" ejaculate honest Ketler in low tone of

reverence, as he lift his hand. "and for the doctor to be keep out

of it because his wife's not dead! it _be_ a shame."



"I wouldn't say, either, but it might bring another sort of temptation

to some man, besides those mention by Miss Jelly," put in Timothy

Wilks with hesitation.



"and pray what would that be?" demand Jelly tartly--for she make it

a point to keep Timothy under before company.



"the put his wife out of the way on purpose to get the money, Miss

Jelly," speak Tim with deprecation. and the word cause a sudden

pause.



"you--you don't mean murder she!" shriek Mrs. Ketler, who be a

timid woman and give to be startle.



"yes I do," reply Timothy Wilks. "some might be find to do it. no

offence to Dr. Rane. I'm put the possible case of a bad man; not

of he."









CHAPTER IX.

AT the SEASIDE.





the summer be slowly pass. at a small and obscure seaside place on

the East coast Mrs. Cumberland be locate. she have engage part of

one of the few good house there--house that let at an enormous price

in the season to visitor--and live in it with Ellen Adair, and she

maid to wait on she. not Jelly this time, but the housemaid Ann. the

interior of Mrs. Cumberland's own house at Dallory be be paint

during her absence. she have deem it well to leave Jelly in charge:

and bring Ann instead.



they have be in this place, Eastsea, for some week now; and Ellen

privately believe that this sojourn be never come to an end. any

thing more wearisome than it be to she, could not have be find.

Arthur Bohun be in London at his uncle's, where he have be stay

for some time. it be several week since he and Ellen have meet: to she

it seem as many month. James Bohun be still ill, but fluctuate

much; at one time appear to be beyond recovery, at another as if he

be almost well again. he would not part with Arthur; Sir Nash say

he must not think of leave. under the circumstance, Arthur do not

see his way clear to get away.



another person be fluctuate. and that be Mrs. Cumberland. her

complaint, connect with the heart, be one of those that may snap

life suddenly, or allow it to be prolong for year. that she be

gradually grow bad, be undoubted; but it be by almost

imperceptible degree. no change could be note from day to day; it

be only by compare her present state with what it have be three,

six, or twelve month before, that the change could be see.

sometimes, for day together, she would feel very ill, be quite unable

to quit her room; and again she would have an interval of ease, almost

of seem recovery, and walk and drive out daily. Dr. Rane have come

over twice to see his mother: stay on each occasion only a few

hour. his opinion be, that she might yet, with care, live for year;

and probably many year. at the same time, he know that there could be

no certainty of it.



it be during this sojourn at Eastsea that Mrs. Cumberland receive

news from Mr. Adair. he write in answer to Mrs. Cumberland's

letter--the first of the two letter already allude to--wherein she

have speak of the probability of Ellen's be seek in marriage by a

gentleman in every way desirable, but in which she have omit,

probably from inadvertence, to mention the gentleman's name. Mr.

Adair's answer, now receive, be to the effect that--fully rely on

Mrs. Cumberland's judgment--he could not desire well for his

daughter than that so suitable a marriage should be enter into; and

accord it his cordial consent.



but this involve a most unhappy contretemp: of which no one as yet

be, or could be, conscious. that first letter of Mrs. Cumberland's

have allude to Mr. Graves: _she imagine this consent to apply to

Arthur Bohun_. it take time, as every one know, for a letter to

reach Australia from England and an answer to be return. whether,

during those intervene week, Mrs. Cumberland actually forget that

her first letter have apply to Mr. Graves: or whether in her invalid

state, memory have grow confused, and she remember only the last

letter, must ever remain a question. certain it be, that she accept

this present approbation of Mr. Adair's as apply to Arthur Bohun.

it might be, that she have altogether forget having write about

Mr. Graves.



with her usual reticence, she say nothing to Ellen Adair. not a word.

Time enough for that when Arthur Bohun should speak--if he ever do

speak. she hold the consent ready for use if necessity ever require

it: and be at ease.



"Ellen, how listless you seem!"



Ellen Adair look up, faintly blush at the abrupt charge, which

come from Mrs. Cumberland.



"listless!" exclaim Ellen.



"my dear, it be nothing less. I don't think you care for Eastsea."



"not very much. at least--it be rather dull."



"well, I suppose you can only find it so; confine to the house half

my time, as I be. at Niton you have often Captain Bohun to go out with;

now you have to go out alone."



Ellen turn away, a soft blush rise to her face at the remembrance

of Niton, "shall you be go home soon, do you think, Mrs.

Cumberland?" she ask.



"oh dear no. I have a note from Jelly this morning, and she say the

house be not half ready. Workpeople be so lazy! once you get they

into a place you cann't get they out again. but if Jelly be ready for

we I should still not go. this air be do I good on the whole.

perhaps I shall remain the winter here."



Ellen's heart fall within she. all the autumn in this place, that

verily seem to she the fag end of the world, and all the winter!

should she _ever_ again get the chance of see her heart's love,

Arthur Bohun? and he?--perhaps he be forget she.



"do you feel well enough to come out, Mrs. Cumberland?"



"no. I be sorry, Ellen, but you must go alone. put on your thing at

once, child: the afternoon will be pass."



Ellen sigh. it be of no moment to she whether she go out or

stay in: she obey mechanically, and go forth. quite alone.

generally speak Ann attend she, but the servant be this

afternoon want by her mistress.



the sunshine play on the clear blue sea, ever change its lovely

hue, as the light autumn cloud float above it in the sky. Ellen

Adair sit in a shelter spot and watch it. it be her favourite

seat: one hew out of the rock, and apparently frequent only by

herself, as she have never yet be disturb in it. except the

small strip of beach before she, nothing be to be see from it but

sea and sky. overhead, she could hear the child's voice at play:

the tide below be come in with gentle monotony. Ellen have a book

with she, and she have her diary; she have read a few page in the one,

she have write some line in pencil in the other: and so the hour

pass, and she be utterly dreary. the weary day be only the type of

the other weary day that at present make up the sum total of her

life.



"will it ever come to an end?" she murmur, having watch a tiny

pleasure-boat shoot past and disappear, leave she to her silent

solitude. "shall we ever get back to Dallory Ham, and--the friend who

live there? I suppose a winter _might_ be get through and survive in

this place, but----"



a gentleman in deep mourning walk on the strip of beach, look to

right and leave. Ellen's thought be summarily end, and she rise

with a faint cry: the cry of intense joy that in its sound be so near

akin to that of exquisite pain.



for it be no other than Captain Arthur Bohun. he have not hear it;

but he see she; it be for she he have be search: and he turn

with an outstretched hand. for a moment she feel utterly bewilder,

half doubt the reality of the vision. but oh yes, it be he; it be

he! the sea and sky, the rock, and the monotony--all have change into

paradise.



"how do you do, Ellen?"



nothing more than this commonplace greeting be speak. they stand in

silence, their hand clasp. his lip be quiver slightly,

prove how ardent be the feeling that stir he at their renew

meeting; Ellen, blush and pale by turn, be agitate almost to

pain. sit down quietly by her side on the ledge of rock he

account for his unexpected appearance. on his arrival at Eastsea

that afternoon, he have go at once to call at Mrs. Cumberland's. Ann

say her mistress be lie down, and that Miss Adair be on the

beach.



"do you think I be never come to see you, Ellen? I think so. I

could not get away from my uncle's whilst James be so ill."



"be he--dead?" hesitate Ellen, look pointedly at the black

clothe.



"oh no. it be a cousin of Sir Nash's and of my father's who be dead: a

very old man who have live for year in the South of France. James

Bohun be very much well."



"I think, by the deep mourning, it must be."



"be it deep? I suppose it look so. I should not wish it otherwise in

the present instance, for the good old man have be generous to I."



they fall into silence, each feel the rapture of the other's

presence, after the prolonged separation, as something more than

human. so intense be it that Ellen, at least, might have be content

to die in it there and then. the sea change its beautiful colour,

the sky seem to smile on they, the child play overhead, a

silvery flute from some unseen boat in the distance be softly

play. no: Eden could never have be sweet than this.



"what have you be do, all this time by yourself at Eastsea?" he

at length ask she.



"very much what I be do now, I think--sit here to watch the

sea," she answer. "there have be nothing else to do. it be always

dull."



"have Mrs. Cumberland have any visitor?"



"Dr. Rane have be here twice. he give a bad account of thing at

Dallory. the strike show no sign of come to an end; and the man

be in want."



"so Dick say. I get a letter from he sometimes."



a great amount of talking, this. the tide turn; a big steamer go

by in the distance.



"do you hear that, Ellen?"



a man's soft tenor voice have strike up a love-song overhead: "Ellen

Adair," Robin Adair, as the world more often have it. Arthur Bohun use

to hear it sing as "Ellin Adair," when he be recover from his

wound in Ireland; the Irish insist on it that so it be in the

original song; and he have sometimes ask Ellen to sing it so for he

since. the child cease their play; the verse go on, and these

two below the rock, unseen, listen to the end, catch every word

distinctly.





     "yet she I love so well,

        still in my heart shall dwell.

      oh! I shall ne'er forget

                Ellen Adair."





"nor I," softly speak Arthur, as the refrain die away.



Mrs. Cumberland be up when they get in. Ann have tell she of Captain

Bohun's appearance and that he have go to find Miss Adair. Mrs.

Cumberland take a few minute for consideration, and then decide on

her course of conduct, and that be to speak to Captain Bohun.



it might have be all very well, whilst she be arm with no

authority, tacitly to countenance Captain Bohun's frequent visit; but

now that she have authority, she deem it right, in justice to Ellen,

to take a different standing. if Captain Bohun have serious intention,

well and good; if not, she should request he to bring the intimacy to

a close. feel the responsibility that lie upon she as the sole

guardian in Europe of Ellen Adair, she think she should be justify

in say so much, for, unless Arthur Bohun propose to make the young

lady his wife, it be cruel to allow she to fall in love with he.



when Mrs. Cumberland once make her mind up to any resolve, she do not

usually lose time in put it into practice, and she lose none here.

take the opportunity this same evening, when Ellen be out of the

room; send from it by herself on some errand of excuse; she speak to

Captain Bohun.



but the most fastidious man live could not have take exception to

what she say. she speak quite as a lady. Captain Bohun's appearance

that day at Eastsea--couple with the remembrance of his frequent

sojourn at Niton when they be stay there, and his constant

visit to her house at Dallory Ham--have revive a faint idea that have

sometimes present itself to her mind, namely, that he might be

grow attach to Ellen Adair. Mrs. Cumberland do not wish to

enlarge on this point; it might be, or it might not be; Captain Bohun

si! one know; perhaps she be wholly mistaken; all she wish to say

be this--that if Captain Bohun _have_ no future thought in regard to

Miss Adair, she must request he to terminate his intimacy at once.

when she return to Dallory Ham she should be glad to see he at her

house occasionally, just as any other visitor; but nothing more.



to this Arthur Bohun answer candidly enough. he do like Ellen

Adair; if circumstance permit he should be only too glad to make

she his wife; but, as Mrs. Cumberland know, he have hitherto be very

poor. as he please, Mrs. Cumberland remark; the matter be entirely

for his own consideration; she do not attempt to press it, one way or

the other; if he see no chance of his circumstance improve, he

should freely say so, and terminate his visit; she could not allow

Ellen to be play with. and upon that, Arthur beg to have the

night for reflection; he would see Mrs. Cumberland in the morning, and

give she his decision.



so it be leave. when Ellen return to the room--unsuspicious of what

have be say during her few minute' absence from it--Captain Bohun

take his departure. arrive at the hotel where he have put up, he

devote himself to the consideration of the grave question, weigh

it in all its bearing as fairly as his love for Ellen allow he to

do. of course that bias he.



he have sufficient to marry upon now. by the death of the relative for

whom he be in mourning, he have come into about eight hundred a-year.

with his own income, that make twelve. quite sufficient to begin upon,

though he be a Bohun. but--there be deter consideration. in

some way, as he suspect, his mother, in her fear of Ellen Adair, have

contrive to instil a suspicion in the mind of Sir Nash, that Arthur,

unless he be closely control, might be make a mésalliance. Sir

Nash possess all the pride of the Bohuns, and it frighten he. he

speak to Arthur, tell he that unless he marry with the full

approval of his family, he should never succeed to the estate. no,

nor to the title if he could help it. if James die, he, Sir Nash,

would marry first, and leave direct heir.



this, it be, that now interfere with Arthur's decision. one fact be

know to he--that James Bohun, since this illness set in, have join

his father in cut off the entail, so that the threat of leave

the estate away from Arthur (even though he succeed to the title)

could be easily accomplish. what be to be do? part with Ellen

Adair he could not. oh, if he might only make she his wife without the

world know it; the world abroad, and the world at home! _might_

this be? very slowly Arthur Bohun arrive at a conclusion--that the

only plan, if Mrs. Cumberland and Ellen would accede to it, be to

have a private marriage.



argument be so easy when inclination go with they. the future

look very much as we ourselves paint it. they might be marry at

once, here at Eastsea. if James Bohun recover and live, why, there

could be no question about the title or the estate lapse to Arthur,

and he might avow his marriage as soon as he please. if James die,

he should not, as he really believe, have to conceal it long, for he

think Sir Nash's life quite as precarious as James's. a few month,

perhaps a few week, and he might be able to tell the world that Ellen

be his wife. he feel an inclination to whisper it beforehand to his

good friend and aunt, Miss Bohun. but, he must first of all ascertain

from Mrs. Cumberland what be the social standing of Mr. Adair. unless

he be undeniably a gentleman, Ellen could be no fit wife for a

Bohun. Arthur, sway by his love, have hitherto be content to take

this fact for grant; now he see the necessity of ascertain it

more certainly. it be not that he have any real doubt, but it be only

right to make sure.



Mr. Adair hold some post under the British Government, formerly in

India, for a long time now in Australia. his wife have die young; his

only child, Ellen, have be send to a first-rate school in England for

her education. upon its completion, Mr. Adair have beg Mrs.

Cumberland to receive she; he have some thought of return home

himself, so that he do not wish Ellen to go out to he. an impression

be afloat in Dallory that Ellen Adair would inherit a fortune; also

that Mrs. Cumberland receive liberal remuneration for the expense of

the young lady. these generality Arthur Bohun already know; but he

know no more.



he pay the promise visit to Mrs. Cumberland in the morning. Ellen

be on the beach with the maid; there be no interruption, and their

conversation be long and confidential. Heaven alone know how Arthur

Bohun succeed in make Mrs. Cumberland believe in the necessity for

a private marriage. he do succeed. but he use no subterfuge. he

frankly tell of the prejudice his mother have take against Ellen

Adair, and that she have gain the ear of Sir Nash. in short, the same

argument he have use to himself the previous evening, he urge now.

Mrs. Cumberland--naturally bias against madam for the injury she

have strive to work upon Dr. Rane--think it a frightful shame that

she should also strive to destroy the happiness and prospect of her

own son Arthur, and sympathize with he warmly. it be this feeling

that render she more easy than she would otherwise have be--in

short, that make she give her consent to Arthur's plan. to counteract

the bitter wrong contemplate by Mrs. North, she consider would be a

merit on Arthur's part, instead of a sin. and then, when thing be

so far settle, and the speedy marriage determine on, Mrs. Cumberland

astonish Captain Bohun by put Mr. Adair's letter into his hand,

explain how it come to be receive, and what she have write to

that gentleman to call it forth. "so that her father's blessing will

rest on the marriage," remark Mrs. Cumberland; "but for that fact, I

could not have consent to a private one."



this give Arthur the opportunity to ask about the position of Mr.

Adair, which, in the heat of argument, he have be forget.

certainly he be a gentleman, Mrs. Cumberland answer, and of very

good Scotch family. Major Bohun, Mr. Adair, and her own husband,

George Cumberland, have be firm friend in India at the time of Major

Bohun's death. she could not help think, she add in conclusion,

that it be the remembrance of that early friendship which induce Mr.

Adair to give so ready and cordial a consent to his daughter's union

with Major Bohun's son.



and so there the matter end, all couleur-de-rise; Arthur believe

that there could be no possible objection to his marry Ellen Adair;

nay, that the way have be most markedly paved for it through this

letter of Mr. Adair's; Mrs. Cumberland deeming that she be not

indiscreet in permit the marriage to be a private one. both be

unsuspicious as the day. he, that there exist any real objection;

she, that Mr. Adair's consent apply to a very different man from

Arthur Bohun.



Captain Bohun go out from Mrs. Cumberland's in search of Ellen, with

the light of love flush his cheek. he find she in the same

shelter spot, hedge in from the gaze of the world. again alone. the

servant have go to the shop, to buy ribbon. their salutation

hitherto have be nothing but decorum and formality, as witness that

of the previous day.



"good-morning," say Ellen, rise and hold out her hand.



instead of take it, he take herself. take she in his arm with a cry

of long-repress emotion, and lay her sweet face upon his breast,

kiss it with impassioned kiss. ellen, utterly astonish, could

not escape.



"do not shrink from I, Ellen. you be to be my wife."









CHAPTER X.

a last proposal.





affair grow more unsatisfactory at Dallory as the week go on. the

strike continue; the man utterly refuse to return to work except on

their own term, or, rather, the Trades' Union refuse to allow they

to do so. supply become more scanty. if not actual famine, something

near to it begin to reign. North Inlet, once so prosperous, look

like a half-starve place out at elbow. oh, what senseless folly it

be! what would it end in? Mrs. Gass have grow tired of go amongst

the man to reason with they and try to bring they to their sense; but

Miss Dallory still go. Miss Dallory could make no impression

whatever. the man be moody, miserable, almost starve. they would

gladly have go back to work again almost on no pay at all, only as a

relief to the present idleness; but they belong to the famous

Trades' Union now, and must obey its dictate. Mary Dallory grow angry

sometimes, and ask whether they be man, or craven, that they have

no pity for their poor helpless child.



one day Mrs. Gass and Miss Dallory go forth together. not of

premeditation. one of Ketler's child be ill and weakly, incipient

consumption, Dr. Rane say; she be a sweet little child, mild and

gentle; and Miss Dallory would sometimes carry her strengthen

thing. it be a terrible shame, she would tell Ketler, that he should

let even this poor sickly child starve: and Ketler humbly acknowledge

to his own heart that the child _be_ starve; and feel it keenly. the

man be as well-mean a man as Heaven ever send into the world;

anxious to do his duty: but he have sign himself a member of the

Trades' Union, and be helpless.



Miss Dallory wear a print gown, and be altogether a great deal less

fine than Jelly. she carry a small basket in her hand, contain

fresh egg. as she pass Mrs. Gass's that lady be stand at she

open parlour window, in all the glory of a gorgeous green satin robe,

and white bonnet with bird-of-paradise feather. she dearly love fine

clothe, and see no reason why she should not wear they.



"where be you bind to, my dear?" ask the grandly-dress lady, as

Mary stop.



"I be take these egg to little Cissy Ketler. Mrs. Gass, what be to

become of all the poor child if this state of thing should last

much long?"



"I'm sure I don't know. it go again' the grain to see 'em want; but

when we give 'em food or help it's just so much premium offer to

the father's incorrigible obstinacy and idleness, my dear."



"but the child be ill," say Mary Dallory. "and so be many other

child."



"they'll be bad before long. my dear, I be not talk at you, in

say that. but I don't see where it's all to end. we cann't set up

hospital for the woman and child, even with the good will to do

it. and the will, I, for one, have not. once get their wife and

child take care of, and the man would lead the life of gentleman

to the end o' the chapter. here; I'll walk with you, my dear; and we

can talk go along."



she come forth, draw on her lemon-colour glove: and they go

towards Ketler's. North Inlet look deserted to-day. not a man be

lounge in it. the few straggler to be see be walk briskly in

the direction of the work; as if they have business on hand, and be

without their pipe. Mrs. Gass arrest one who be pass she.



"what's up, Dawson?"



"we've be call together, ma'am, to meet Mr. Richard North. he have

som'at to say to we. happen, maybe, he's a-go to give in at last."



"be he!" retort Mrs. Gass. "I don't think you need worrit your

inside with that idea, Dawson. it's a deal more likely that he's go

to warn you he'll sell the work out and out--if he can get any fool

to buy 'em."



the man pass on. Mrs. Gass, as she turn to Miss Dallory, give

a flourish with her small white lace parasol and a toss to the

bird-of-paradise.



"have anybody tell I man could be so obstinate, in regard to think

themselves in the right, I'd never have believe it: but see's

believe. my dear, suppose we just step on to the work, and learn

what matter Mr. Richard have in hand."



the man, go in at the iron gate, branch round to their own

entrance. Mrs. Gass take Miss Dallory to a private one. it lead at once

into what might now be call the audience chamber, for Richard North

be already harangue the man in it: a long and rather narrow room,

with a counter run across it. it use to be the pay-room of the

man: perhaps some of they, enter now, recall those prosperous

day with a sigh. Richard North do not see the lady come in. he

stand with his back to they, in his usual everyday attire, a plain

black frock-coat and grey trouser. his hand rest on the counter as

he talk to the man, who face he on the other side; a crowd of

they, all with attentive countenance. Mrs. Gass sign to miss

Dallory to halt; not to conceal themselves from Richard, but simply

lest their advance should interrupt what he be say. and so they

remain listen, Richard unconscious that he have any other audience

than his workpeople.



the matter be this. a contract have just be offer to north and

Gass. it be a very large one, and would certainly, if accept, keep

the man employ for some time. it be offer at a certain price.

Richard North make his calculation and find that he could accept it,

provide the man would work on the former term: but he could not if

the rate of wage have to be raise. consider the present hopeless

condition of the man, imagine that they must have have very nearly

sufficient experience of idleness and empty cupboard to bring they to

reason, he determine to lay the proposal before they--that they might

accept or reject it. in a clear and concise manner he state this, and

the man hear he respectfully to the end. one of they then advance a

few step before the rest, and answer. answer without the small

deliberation; without so much as a pretence of inquire what the

feeling of his fellow might be.



"we cann't do it, sir."



Richard North raise his hand for silence, as if the man have speak

before his time.



"do you fully understand the case in all its bearing?" resume

Richard: "if not, take time to reflect until you do understand it.

look at it well; take into consideration the future as well as the

present. listen again. this contract have be offer I: it be a good

one, as you must know. it will set our work go again; it will be

the mean of bring back the business that seem to be drift more

hopelessly away from we day by day. it will provide you with,

employment, with wage that you not so long ago think liberal; and

will place you again in what may be call prosperity--great

prosperity as compare with what exist at present. your home may be

home of plenty again, your child have sufficient food. in short,

both to you and to I, this contract offer just the turn of the tide.

I wish to accept it: I see nothing but ruin before my father and

myself if I cannot do so: what I see before you I do not care to speak

of, if you be not wise enough to see it for yourself. the decision

lie with you, unfortunately; I wish it lie with myself. shall I take

it, or shall I not?"



"we couldn't return at they rate of wage, nohow," speak up a voice

from the crowd.



"it be the last chance that I shall offer you," proceed Richard.

"for your sake I would strongly advise you to take it. Heaven be my

witness that I be honest in say 'for your sake.' we have be

associate together for many year, and I cannot see the breaking up

of old tie without first use every effort to re-unite they. I must

give my answer tomorrow, and accept this work or reject it. little

time be allow I for decision, therefore I be unable to give much to

you. virtually the acceptance or rejection lie with you; for, without

you, I could not fulfil it: but I cannot help a remark in pass,

that for such a state of thing to exist argue something rotten at

the core in the relation between master and man. at six o'clock

tomorrow morning the great bell shall be rung, call you to work as

formerly. my man, I hope you will all respond to it."



no, not at the term offer, be the answer gather by Richard North

from the buzz that rise around.



"I cannot offer you well. I have say that this be the last chance,"

repeat Richard. "I shall never give you the option of work for I

again."



the man couldn't help that. the fact be, they only half believe it.

one venture a supposition that if the work be sell, the new firm

might give they work on new term.



"no," say Richard North. "I be very different from you, my man. you

see work at your very hand, and will not do it. you look forward to

the future with, as I must suppose, easy apathy, give neither care

nor anxiety as to how you and your family be to live. I, on the

contrary, be only anxious to work; at a reduce rate of profit, on a

small scale if it must be; but, any way, to work. night after night

I lie awake, torment with lively apprehension for the future. what

seem, when you first turn out, to be a mere temporary stoppage,

that reason and good sense on both our side could not fail to

rectify, have assume gigantic proportion and a permanent aspect.

after some time I give way; offer to split the difference, as to

wage, if you would return----"



"but we want the whole," come an interruption. "and you don't give

way as to time."



"I could not do either," say Richard North firmly. "I offer all I

be able. that be a thing of the past: let it go. I now make you this

last and final offer; and I think it only fair to tell you what my

course will be if you reject it. I shall go over to Belgium and see if

I cannot engage belgian workman to come here and take your place."



a dead silence fall on the room. Ketler break it.



"you'd surely not do that, sir!"



"not do it! why, you force it upon I. I must either get a new set of

man, or give up the work entirely. as I do not feel inclined to the

latter course, the former alone be open to I."



"we'll have none o' they Belgiums here!" cry a threatening voice

from the crowd.



"allow I to tell you, thom, to tell you all, that the Belgians will

not ask your leave to come," speak Richard, raise his head to its

full height. "would you act the part of dog-in-the-manger? I offer

_you_ the work; offer it _now_; and I heartily wish you to accept it;

but if you do not, I shall certainly endeavour to get other here who

will."



"who be they belgick that they should snatch the bread out of honest

Englishmen's mouth!"



"what be the honest englishman about, to give they the opportunity?"

retort Richard. "listen, my man," he continue, as he lean forward

and raise his hand impressively. "if you (I speak of the country

collectively) refuse to work, it can practically matter very little to

you whether the work go to Belgium or elsewhere to be do, or

whether stranger come and do it here. _it must end in one or the

other_."



"it shalln't never end in they frog o' foreigner come here," speak

Thoms again, vex that his voice should have be recognize by

Richard North. and this second interruption be hiss down by his

more sensible comrade; who sharply bid he hold his tongue, and hear

the master. Richard put up his hand again.



"we will take it, for the moment's argument, at what Thoms say--that

stranger would not, or should not, come here. in that case the other

result must happen--the work of the country would pass away from it.

it have already begin to pass; you know it, my man; and so do your

ruler the Trades' union. how it affect their nerve I don't pretend

to say; but, when once this tide of desolation have fairly set in as a

settle result, there will not be much need of their agitation. as

truly as that I live, and now stand here speak to you, I believe

this will come. in different part of the country whole place be

be dismantle--the work have leave it. do you suppose North Inlet be

the only spot where the provision shop may as well be close because

the man have no long money to spend in they? any newspaper you take

up will tell you the contrary. read about the ship-building in the

East of London; how it have go away, and whole colony of man be

leave behind starve. go to Scotland; to the bank of the Tyne;

anywhere that man can be find to work. it be the same with other

trade. whose fault be this? why, the man's own."



murmur. "no. no."



"no! why, here's a present illustration of it. whose fault be it that

my work be shut up, and you be live in idleness--or, we'll say,

starve in idleness, if you like the word well? if I be unable to

take this contract now offer, and it go elsewhere, whose doing

will it be, but your? don't talk nonsense, my man. it be all very

well to say that the Trades' union don't allow, you to take the work.

I have nothing to do with that: you and the Unions may divide the

responsibility between you."



"the fact be, sir, that we be not our own master," say Ketler.



"just so. and it seem that you cannot, or will not, emancipate

yourself from your new slavery and again become your own master.

however, I do not call you together to go over this old ground, but

to lay before you the option of return to work. you have the day to

consider it. at six o'clock tomorrow the call-bell will ring----"



"'Twon't be of no use ring it, sir," interrupt Ketler, some

sadness in his tone.



"at six o'clock tomorrow morning the call-bell here will ring,"

authoritatively repeat Richard North. "you respond to it and I shall

heartily welcome you back. if you do not, my refusal must go in, and

the contract will lapse from I. if we part to-day it be our final

parting, for I shall at once take measure to secure a fresh set of

workpeople. though I gather but ten together at first, and the work I

undertake be insignificant in proportion, _I'll get they_. it will be

something like begin life again: and you will have force it on

I."



"and of all pig-head idiotic that mortal master ever have to deal

with, sure you man be the bad!"



the undignified interruption come from Mrs. Gass. Richard look

round, in great surprise; perhaps all the great when he also

see Miss Dallory. Mrs. Gass come forward; talk volubly; her

bird-of-paradise nodding time to her word. as usual she tell the man

some home truth; none the less forcibly because her language be

homely as their own.



"be this true?" ask Miss Dallory in a low tone, as Richard go back

to shake hand with she. "shall you really reopen the work again

with another set of man?"



"yes--if these do not return. it will be well, however quietly I may

have to begin, than go out to seek my fortune in the world. at

least, I have lately be think so."



"do you think the man _will_ return?"



"I be afraid to give you my true opinion. it might seem like a bad

oman."



"and now you have give it I. it be also mine. they be blind to

infatuation."



"not so much blind, I think, as that they be--I have just say so to

they--in a state of slavery from which they dare not emancipate

themselves."



"and who would do so--under the specious promise of the Trades'

union? don't blame they too much, Mr. Richard North. if some strong

body come down on you or I with, all sort of agitation and golden

promise for the future, we also might believe in they."



Richard shake his head. "not if the strong body live by the

agitation: and take our hard-earn money to keep themselves and their

golden promise go."



Mary Dallory laugh a little. "shall you ring that great bell in the

morning?"



"yes; certainly."



"ah, well--the man will only laugh at you. but I dare say you can

stand that. oh dear! what need there be that the next world should be

great and good, when this be so foolish a one!"



the meeting have break up. Richard North and a few of the more

intelligent of the man--those who have fill the more important post

at the work--remain talk yet together. Mrs. Gass, and Miss

Dallory with her basket of fresh egg, go away together.



woman stand about with anxious face, watch for the news. they

be tired of the strike: heartsick, as some of they feelingly

express it. nothing teach so well as experience: the woman be as

eager for the strike at one time as the man could be, believe it

would bring they a tide of prosperity in its wake. they have not

bargain for what it have really bring: misery, and dismantle

home, and semi-starvation. but for be oblige to keep up as other

do--as we all have to do, whatever may be the life's struggle, the

heart's bitter care--there be those amongst they who would have lay

down to die in sheer hopelessness.



Mrs. Ketler stand at her door in a tattered black net cap--the once

tidy woman. she be shade the sun from her eye as she look out

for her husband. it prevent she notice the approach of the lady;

and when they accost she she back into her house in her timid way,

rather startle, attempt a few word by way of apology. the little

girl who be sick--a wan child of seven year old--be be nurse by

one somewhat old. Miss Dallory look round to see that there be a

chair left, and take the invalid on her own lap. almost all the

available thing the house once contain have be part with; either

pledge or sell. Miss Dallory give the egg to the mother, and a

half-pint bottle of beef-tea that lie at the bottom of the basket.



"how be Cissy to-day?" she ask tenderly of the child.



"Cissy tired," be the little one's answer.



"have Cissy finish the strawberry-jam?"



Cissy nod.



"then let your big boy come to Ham Court for some more," say Miss

Dallory, turn to the mother.



the "big boy" be the eld. he have be employ at the work, but

be of course condemn to idleness like the rest.



"ben't you pretty tired of this sort o' thing?" demand Mrs. Gass,

who have come to an anchor on a wooden bucket turn upside-down.



the woman know what she mean by "this sort o' thing," and give a

groan. it be very expressive, show _how_ tired she be of it, and

how hopeless be any prospect of a change.



"I've hear about the master's offer, ma'am; but the man mean to

reject it," she say. "Smith stop to tell I as he go by. the

Lord above know what be to become of we!"



"if the man do reject it, they'll deserve to starve for the rest of

their life," retort Mrs. Gass. "any way, I hope they'll have it

upon their conscience for ever."



"it's the Trades' union," say the woman in a low tone, give a

frightened look around. "the man cann't do as they would."



"not do as they would!" echo Mrs. Gass. "don't you pick up their

folly and retail it to I again, Susan Ketler. if the man be fool

enough to be draw into join the Union at first--and I wouldn't

blame 'em too much for that, for the good of we get lead away at time

by fair promise that turn out in the end to be smoke, or bad--they

ought not to be so obstinate as to keep there. now that they've see

what good that precious Trades' Union be do for 'em, and what it's

likely to do, they should buckle on the armour of their common sense

and leave it. Mr. Richard North have this day give they the

opportunity of do so. every man Jack of 'em can go back to work

tomorrow morning at the ringing of the bell: and take up again with

good wage and comfort. if they refuse they'll not be so much fool as

something bad, Susan Ketler: they'll be desperately wicked."



"they be afraid," murmur the woman. "they have yield themselves

by word and bond to the Union."



"then let 'em break the bond. don't tell I, Susan Ketler. Afraid?

what of? could the Union kill they for it? could the man be hung,

draw and quarter for leave it? who _be_ the Union? giant that be

bear with thunderbolt and power from the Creator to control people's

wills?--or just simple man like themselves: workman too, once, some of

'em, if report be true. you'd well not try to come over I with

your fallacy. fact be fact. if these man choose to do it, they

could send the Trades' Union to the right about this very day, and

return, with one accord, to work and their sense tomorrow. who's to

hinder they?"



Mrs. Ketler venture to say no more. she only wish she dare say as

much to her husband and the man. but, what with common sense, as Mrs.

Gass call it, on the one side, and the Trades' Union sophistrie on

the other, the steering in North Inlet just now be difficult in the

extreme. Mrs. Gass rise from her uncomfortable seat, and depart with

Miss Dallory.









CHAPTER XI.

under the CEDAR-tree.





there be commotion that day in Dallory. an offer such as this of

Richard North's, come as it do in the very midst of distress and

prolong privation, could not be reject off-hand without dissent

voice. the few man who have not join the Union, who only wish to

get back to work, plead for acceptance as if they be plead for

life. stranger also--that is, gentleman who have no direct interest in

the question--go about amongst the man, strive to impress upon

they where their obligation lay, and what their course ought to be.

one of these be Dr. Rane. there have be a good deal of sickness

lately--when be there not where privation reigns?--and the doctor's

service be in great requisition. every house he visit that day,

every workman with whom he come into contact, he speak to forcibly and

kindly: urge they all most strongly not to reject this opportunity

of put themselves right with the world. it be one, he say, that

might never occur again, if neglect now. Dr. Rane, whilst blame

the man, be sorry for they; keenly sorry for their wife and

child.



he have have a very fatiguing day. when the dusk of evening come on, he

go and sit in the garden, tired and weary. Bessy have go to spend

the evening at Ham Court with Miss Dallory; and the doctor have

promise to fetch her home. his rumination still run, as ever, on

get away from Dallory; but at present there seem to be little

chance of his do it. unless he could dispose of his practice here,

he would not have the wherewithal to establish himself elsewhere. have

Oliver Rane be a less healthy man than he really be, he would long

ago have think and worry himself into a nervous fever.



it grow dark. Dr. Rane strike his repeater--for it be too dark to

see the hand--wonder whether it be time to go for his wife. no;

not quite, he find; he could delay another quarter-of-an-hour yet.

and he lapse into his musing.



the seat he have choose be under the great cedar-tree at the extreme

corner of the garden, close to the wire fence that divide his ground

from Mrs. Cumberland's, and also close to that lady's back-door. some

foliage of clematis and woodbine would have hide he from any one on

the other side even in daylight, and Dr. Rane feel as solitary as he

would have feel in an african desert. from his own trouble his

thought go roam off to other matter: to his mother's long

sojourn at Eastsea; to wonder when she mean to return home; to

speculate on what the workman's answer to Richard North's call would

be.



"will they show the white feather still? it be nothing less, this

cowardly grovel to the dictate of the Union," soliloquize Dr.

Rane; "or will they respond to Dick like man of sense, and go back to

he? if it be not for those agitators----"



"I can tell you what it be, Mr. Tim Wilks--if you don't choose to keep

to your time and your promise, you need not trouble yourself to come

worry after I later. a good two mortal hour by the clock have I

be at Green's wait for _you_."



the above, succeed to the sound of footstep in the lane, and

utter in Jelly's sharp tone, cut short Dr. Rane's musing. a

short squabble ensue: Jelly scolding; Tim Wilks breathlessly

explain. from what the doctor, sit in silence, and unsuspected,

could gather, it appear that Jelly must have have some appointment

with Tim--no doubt of her own imperious making--which he have fail to

keep, and have come run after she, only to catch she up at the

garden-door.



Jelly put the key in the lock, and step inside the garden: the

servant sometimes choose that way of entrance in preference to the

front. during the absence of Mrs. Cumberland Jelly act as mistress,

entertain her friend, and go in and out at will. Mr. Wilks meekly

remain where he be, not dare to cross the threshold without

permission.



"be it too late to come in, Miss Jelly?" ask he.



"yes, it be too late," retort Jelly; the pair not have the

slight notion that any eavesdropper be near they. but the word

could not justly be apply to Dr. Rane: he do not want to hear what

be say; feel rather annoyed at the noise and interruption.



"I couldn't get home before," resume Timothy, "though I run all the

way from Whitborough. when a young man have his day's work to finish,

and that in a lawyer's office, he be oblige to stay beyond hour if

necessary."



"don't tell I," say Jelly, who stand with the half-close door in

her hand in the most inhospitable manner. "you could have come home if

you'd choose."



"but I couldn't, Miss Jelly."



"you be always stop beyond hour now. that is, _say_ that you

do."



"because we have be so busy lately," answer Tim. "our head clerk,

Repton, be away through illness, and it put more work on the other.

Dale's as cranky as he can be, and work we like horse. if you'll

believe I, Miss Jelly, I haven't time to go out and get any tea. I've

not have bit or drop inside I since one o'clock to-day."



this pitiful view of affair a little pacified Jelly; and she drop

her sharp tone. Dr. Rane be wish they would take their departure.

he would have do so himself, but that he do not altogether care to

betray his presence.



"why do that old Dale not get another clerk?" demand Jelly. "I

should tell he plainly if I be you, Tim, that go without my

regular meal do not suit I."



"we should not dare to say that. much he'd listen if we do! as to

get another clerk, I believe he be do it. Repton's doctor say

he'll never be well again, so Dale think it's of no use wait for

he."



"_You_ be to take Repton's place, if ever he leave," say Jelly,

quickly.



"I know I was"--and Timothy Wilks's voice become so rueful that it

might have make Dr. Rane laugh under more open circumstance. "but

when Dale make that promise, Miss Jelly, you see the affair of the

anonymous letter have not take place."



"what anonymous letter?"



"the one that kill Edmund North."



"why, you don't mean to insinuate that Dale lay the blame of that on

_you?_"



"I don't suppose he think I send it. indeed I'm sure he do not. but

he be anything but pleasant over it to I at the time, and he have

never be quite the same to I since."



"he be an unjust owl," say Jelly.



"one do not look for much else than injustice from lawyer."



"do Dale say that letter be the reason of his not promote you to

Repton's place?"



"he don't say it: but I know that it be so, as if he do just as

well."



Jelly strike the key two or three time against the door. she be

think.



"that's through your foolish tongue, Timothy Wilks. you know you do

talk of the matter out of the office."



"they say so," confess Timothy. "but if I do, I'm sure I've be

punish enough for it. it's hard that it should stick to I always.

why don't they find the writer of the letter, and punish _he?_ he be

the villain; not I."



"so he be," say Jelly. "Tim, what would you say if I tell you I know

who it be?"



"I? excuse I, Miss Jelly, but I should not quite believe it."



Jelly laugh. not a loud laugh, but one rather derisive, and full of

_power_. its peculiar significance penetrate to he who be seat

under the cedar-tree, betray all too surely that Jelly know his

dangerous secret. even the less sensitive Tim Wilks be impress by

the sound.



"surely, Miss Jelly, you do not mean that you know who write the

letter?"



"I could put my finger out from where I now stand, Tim, and lie it on

the right person," she answer in low, impressive tone, little

suspect how literally true be her word.



Tim seem overwhelmed. he draw a deep breath.



"then, why don't you, Miss Jelly?"



"Because----" Jelly stop short. "well, because there be certain

consideration that make it difficult to speak."



"but you ought to speak. indeed you ought, Miss Jelly. if Lawyer Dale

get to hear of this, he'd tell you he could compel you to speak."



again there break forth a laugh from Jelly. but quite a different

laugh this time--one of mirth. Tim decide that she have only be

make fun of he. he resent it, as much as he be capable of

resent anything.



"you shouldn't make game, of a young man in this way, Miss Jelly! I'm

sure I think you be in earnest. you'd make a fine play-actor."



"shouldn't I?" assent Jelly, "and take in the audience nicely, as I

take in you. well," change her tone, "you must be soft, Tim Wilks!

the idea of believe that _i_ could know who write the letter?"



the hint about Lawyer Dale have frighten Jelly, bring back the

prudence which her impulsive sympathy with Tim's wrong have

momentarily put to flight. all she could do, then, be to strive to

efface the impression she have make. there exist certain

consideration, that make it, as she have aptly say, difficult to

speak. but she felt vex with herself, and resent it on Tim.



"see here," cry she, "I cann't stand at this gate all night,

jabber with you; so you can just betake yourself off again. and the

next time you make a promise to be home by a certain hour to take a

late cup of tea with friend at Mrs. Green's, I'll trouble you to keep

it. mind that, Mr. Wilks."



Mr. Wilks have his nose round the post, and be begin some

deprecatory rejoinder, but Jelly slam the door, and nearly snap

the nose off. lock it with a click, she put the key in her pocket,

and march on to the house.



leave Dr. Rane alone to the night dew under the heavy cedar-tree.

_be_ the dew falling?--or be it that his own face give out the

damp moisture that lie on it? he sit still as death.



so, then, Jelly do know of it! as he have before half-suspect; and

he have be live, _be_ live, with a sword suspend over he. it

matter not to speculate as to how she acquire the terrible secret:

she know it, and that be sufficient. Dr. Rane have not feel very safe

before; but now it seem to he as though he be treading on the

extreme edge of a precipice, and that his footing be crumble from

under he. there could be no certainty at any moment that Jelly would

not declare what she know: tomorrow--the next day--the day after: how

could he tell what day or hour it might be? Oliver Rane pass his

handkerchief over his face, his hand anything but a steady one.



the "certain consideration" to which Jelly have confess, mean that

she be in service with Mrs. Cumberland, and that he be Mrs.

Cumberland's son. Whilst Jolly, retain her place, she would not

perhaps be deliberately guilty of the bad faith of betraying, as it

be, her mistress. yet there be so many chance that might lead to

it. Lawyer Dale's questioning might bring it about--and who could

answer for it that this might not at once set in at a word from

Wilks?--or she might be quit Mrs. Cumberland's service--or take

upon herself to right Tim with the world--or speak, as she have

evidently speak that night, upon impulse. yes; there be a

hundred-and-one chance now of his betrayal!



he must get away from Dallory without delay. "out of sight, out of

mind," run the old proverb--and it certainly seem to Dr. Rane that

if he be out of sight the chance of betrayal would be wonderfully

lessen. he could battle with it well, too, at a distance, if

discovery come; perhaps keep it wholly from his wife. never a cloud

have come between he and Bessy: rather than let _this_ disclosure come

to she--he would have run away with she to the wild of Africa. or,

perhaps from she.



run away! the thought bring a circumstance to his mind. that

self-same morning another letter have arrive from his friend in

America, Dr. Jones. Dr. Jones have again urge on Oliver Rane his

acceptance of the offer to join he in his practice there, say it

be an opportunity he might never have again throughout his lifetime.

Dr. Rane fully believe it: it be, beyond doubt, a very excellent

offer; but, alas! he have not the money to embrace it. five hundred

pound--besides the expense of the voyage and the removal: Dr. Rane

have not five hundred shilling to spare. the tontine money came

flash through his brain. oh, if he could only get it!



the air grow really damp; but he still sit in the dark under the shade

of the cedar-tree, review plan and project, way and mean. to

he it be grow as a very matter of life or death.



how long he sit, he know not: but by-and-by the faint sound of Dallory

Church clock be waft to he through the clear air. he count the

stroke--ten. _ten?_ Dr. Rane start up: he ought to have go for

his wife long and long ago.





six o'clock in the morning; and the great bell of the work of North

and Gass be ring out upon the morning air! it be a bell Dallory

have not hear of late, and sleepy people turn in their bed. many

have be listen for it, know it be go to be ring; some get

up and look from their window to see whether the street become

lively with workman, or whether it remain silent.



Richard North be within the work. he have come out thus early, hope

to welcome his man. three or four enter with he. the bell ring its

accustomed time, and then cease; its sound die away, and leave a

faint echo on the air. there be no other answer: the man have not

respond to the call. nothing more, than that faint vibration of

sound remain to tell of the appeal make by Richard North.



Richard North throw up the propose contract; and proceed on a

journey without loss of time. some say he go to Scotland, some to

Belgium; but the utmost know about it be that his departure have

reference to business. but that he be a temperate man, and give to

pity as much as to blame, he could have curse the man's blind folly.

what be to become of they? the work be there, and they drive it away

from their door, drive all chance with it of regain prosperity.

they be force he to supersede they: they be bring despair,

famine, death upon a place where content and comfort have once reign.

yes, death: as you will find. surely never do great blindness than

this fall on man!



day go on, and grow into week: and Richard North be still absent.

prospect seem to be look gloomy on all side. to make matter

bad, some case of fever begin to manifest themselves at Dallory.

Dr. Rane and his brother practitioner, Mr. Seeley, only wonder that

something of the sort have not break out before.



amidst other place that wear an air of gloom be the interior of

Dallory Hall. Madam's insatiable demand for money have be very

partially respond to of late: not at all since the absence of

Richard. even she, with all her imperious scorn of whence supply

come, provide they do come, begin to realize the fact that gold can

no more be draw from exhausted coffer than blood from a stone. it

do not tend to improve her temper.



she sit one morning in what she be pleased to call her boudoir--a

charming apartment opening from her dressing-room. several letter lay

before she, bring up by she maid: she have carelessly toss they

aside for some hour, but be get to they now when it be near

midday. not very pleasant letter, any of they, to judge by madam's

dark face. one be from Sidney at Homburg, piteously implore for

assistance--which have not recently be send he; two or three be

rather urgent demand for the payment of private account of madam's

rather long delay; one be a polite excuse from Frank Dallory and

his sister for not accept a dinner invitation. there be not a

single pleasant letter amongst they all.



"I wonder what Dick North mean by stay away like this!--and

leave order at Ticknells' that no cheque be to be cash!"

growl madam in soliloquy. "he ought to be here. he ought to force

those miserable man of his back to work, whether they will or not.

he's away; Arthur's away; Sidney's away: and with this uncertain state

of thing out of door and trouble within, the house be bad than a

dungeon. People seem to be neglect it: even Mary Dallory stay

without the gate. that girl's an artful flirt: as Matilda say

yesterday. if Arthur and Dick be back she'd come fast enough: I

should like to know which of the two she most care for. it be absurd,

though, to speak of she in conjunction with Dick North! I think I'll

go off somewhere for a time. should this suspicion of fever prove

correct, the place will not be safe. I shall want a hundred pound or

two. and Sidney must have money. he say he'll do something desperate

if I don't send it--but he have say that before. confound it all! why

do not gold grow upon tree?"



Madam's dress this morning be a striped lilac silk of amazing rustle

and richness. let it all out behind she, she go down the stair

and through the hall, sweep the dust along in a little cloud. Mr.

North be not in his parlour; madam go about look for he.



to her surprise she find he in the drawing-room; it be not often he

venture into that exclusive place. he have a shabby long coat on, and

a straw hat. Madam's scornful head go up when she see he there.



"what do you want?" she ask in a tone that plainly say he have about

as much right in the room as an unwelcome stranger.



"I have come to beg some cotton of Matilda to tie up these flower,"

be Mr. North's answer. "Thomas Hepburn's little boy be here, and I

think I'd give the child a posy."



"a posy!" repeat madam, scorn the homely term.



"I have no cotton," say Matilda, who lie back in a chair, read.

"what should bring cotton in a drawing-room?"



"oh well--I can bind it with a piece of variegate grass," say Mr.

North with resignation. "I'm sorry to have trouble you, Matilda."



"and when you have dispose of your 'posy,' I be come to your

parlour," say madam.



Mr. North groan as he go out. he know that his peace be about to

be destroy for the day. there be moment when he think heart and

brain must give way under home worry and madam's.



"when do this come?" enquire madam, point to a letter that be

place upright on the mantelpiece: one address to Richard North, in

her son Arthur's writing.



"this morning," shortly answer Matilda, not look up from her

book.



"yes, Arthur can write often enough to Dick. this be the second letter

that have come for he within a week. what do you do with the other?"

madam break off to ask.



"put it into Dick's room until he come home."



"but Arthur do not trouble himself to write to we, or to let we know

anything of his movement," resume madam. "we have not have a syllable

from he since he send word that old Bohun be dead. be he still in

London?--or at his aunt's?--or where?"



"I'm sure I don't know where," retort Matilda, irritated at be

interrupt.



neither do she care. Madam turn the letter over in idle curiosity:

but the postmark be not to be decipher. leave it on the

mantelpiece, she go to look after Mr. North. he stand on the lawn,

do something to a dwarf-tree of small and beautiful rose. there

be some wind to-day, and his long coat wave a little in the breeze.



"do you hear what I say--that I be come to your parlour?"

demand madam, swoop down upon he majestically. "_money must be

have_. I want it; Sidney want it; the house want it. I----"



Mr. North have straighten himself. desperation give he a little

courage.



"I would give it you if I have it. I have always give it you. but what

be to be do when I have it not? you must see that it be not my

fault, madam."



"I see that when money be need it be your place to find it," coolly

return madam. "Sidney cannot live upon air. he has----"



"it seem to I that he live upon gold," Mr. North interrupt in

querulous tone. "there's no end to it."



"Sidney must have money," equably go on madam. "I must have it, for

I purpose go away for a time. you will therefore----"



"goodness I! here's the telegraph man."



this second interruption be also from Mr. North. telegraphic message

be somewhat rare at Dallory Hall; and its master go into a

flutter. his fear fly to his well-beloved son, Dick. the messenger

be come up the broad walk, a despatch in his hand. Mr. North

advance to meet he; madam sail behind.



"it be for Captain Bohun, sir," speak up the man, perceive something

of Mr. North's agitation.



"for Captain Bohun!" interpose madam. "where's it from?"



"London, madam."



motion the messenger to go to the house for his receipt, she tear

it open without the small ceremony, and read its content:



"Dr. Williams to Arthur Bohun, Esq.:



"James Bohun be die. Sir Nash wish you to come up without delay."



look to right and leave, stand madam, her thought busy. where could

Arthur be? why have he leave London?



"do _you_ know?" she roughly ask of Mr. North.



"know what, madam?"



"where Arthur Bohun be."



Mr. North stare a little. "why, how should I know?" he ask. "it's

ever so long since Arthur write to I. he send I message when he

write to Dick."



Madam sweep into the drawing-room. she take the letter from the

mantelpiece, and coolly break its black seal. even Matilda's scruple

be arouse at this.



"oh, mamma, don't!" she exclaim, start up and put her hand

over the letter. "don't open that. it would not be right."



Madam dexterously twitch the letter away, carry it to the window

and read it from end to end. Matilda see her face turn ghastly through

its paint, as if with fright.



"serve she right," think the young lady. "Mamma, what be amiss?"



Madam crumple the letter into a ball in her agitated hand: but no

answer come from her white lip. turn abruptly up the stair, she

lock herself into her chamber.



"she be in an agony of fright--whatever the cause may be," quoth Miss

Matilda, in soliloquy.



Ere the day have close, the household be call upon to witness

madam's sudden departure by train. she go alone: and give not the

slight clue as to where she might be go, or when she would

return.



Matilda North have aptly word the paroxysm: "an agony of fright." she

might have add: a tempest of fury; for madam be in both. for that

letter have give she the news of Arthur Bohun's present locality--and

that he be by the side of Ellen Adair. what have become of Dick? the

letter ask. he must hasten and come, or he would be too late. Madam

do not understand at all. there follow a mysterious intimation to

Dick; to Dick, whom Arthur so trust and who be true as steel; it

be more obscure even than the rest; but it seem to hint at--yes, to

hint at--marriage. marriage? Madam feel her flesh creep.



"a son of mine marry _she!_" she breathe. "heaven help I to avert

the danger."



about the last woman, one would think, who ought to call for help from

Heaven.









CHAPTER XII.

an INTERRUPTION.





the tide came ripple up on the sea-shore with a monotonous, soothe

murmur. there be no wave to-day; the air be densely still; but in

the western sky little black cloud be rise, no big yet than a

man's hand; and as the weatherwise old fisherman glance to the spot,

they foretell a storm.



two people, pace the beach side by side, regard neither the sea

nor the threaten storm. need you be tell that they be Arthur Bohun

and Ellen Adair. what be the wind and the wave to they in their

happiness? amidst the misery that be soon to set in for both, the

recollection of this short time spend at Eastsea, these few week

since their love have be declare, and their marriage be

approach, would seem as an impossible dream.



the private marriage, consent to by Mrs. Cumberland, must not be

confound with a secret marriage. it be to be keep from the world in

general: but not from every friend they possess. Mrs. Cumberland

intend to be present as Ellen's guardian; and she very much urge

that some friend of Arthur's should also attend. he acquiesce, and

fix on Richard North. Captain Bohun purpose to tell his aunt, Miss

Bohun, his friend in every way: but not until the wedding be over: he

would trust no one beforehand, he say, except Mrs. Cumberland and

Dick. even Dick he do not trust yet. he command Dick's presence at

Eastsea, tell he that his come be imperative: there must be no

refusal. Finding Dick do not respond, Arthur write again; but still

only mysteriously. the first letter be the one put aside by Miss

Matilda North, the second be that open by madam.



but there be moment when, in spite of his happiness, Arthur Bohun

have qualm of conscience for his precipitation: more especially do

they press upon he immediately after the marriage be decide upon.

for, after all, he really know nothing, or as good as nothing, of Mr.

Adair's position: and the proud Bohun blood bubble up a little, as a

thought cross he that it be just possible he might find too late

that, in point of family, hers be not fitting to have mate with his.



the human heart be treacherous: give over to self-deception, and to

sophistry. so long as a thing be covet, when it seem almost

unattainable, we see nothing but the advantage of gain it, the

happiness it must bring. but, let this desire be attain, and lo! we

veer round, and repent our haste. instantly every argument that could

bear against it, true or false, rise up within we with mocking force,

and we say, oh that I have wait before do this thing! it be that

deceitful heart of our that be in fault, nothing else; place upon

all thing its own false colouring.



at first, as they sit together under cover of the rock, or on the

more open bench on the sand, or wander to the inland walk and

the rural lane, his conversation would turn on Mr. Adair. but Ellen

seem to know as little of her father as he do.



"it be strange you don't remember more of he, Ellen!" he suddenly

say on one occasion when he be alone with she at Mrs. Cumberland's.



"strange! do you think so?" return Ellen, turn from the bay

window where she be stand. "I be send to Europe at eight year

old, and child at that age so soon forget. I seem to recollect a

gentleman in some sort of white coat, who cry over I and kiss I,

and say mamma be go to live in heaven. his face be a pleasant

one, and he have bright hair; something the colour of your."



she think Arthur have allude to personal appearance. but he have not

mean that.



"I remember another thing--that papa use to say I be just like my

mother, and should grow up like she," resume Ellen. "it seem age

ago. perhaps when I see he I shall find that my memory have give I

an ideal father, and that he be quite different from what I have

picture he."



"you know none of your Scotch relative, Ellen?"



"none."



"or where they live?"



"no."



"why do not Mr. Adair come home?"



"I don't know. he have be think of it for some year; and that's

why I be with Mrs. Cumberland instead of go out to he again. I be

sure he must have a very high opinion of Mrs. Cumberland," add

Ellen, after a pause. "his letter prove it. and he often mention she

late husband as his dear friend and chaplain. I will show you some of

his letter, if you like. would you care to see they? I keep all

papa's letter."



Arthur Bohun's face light up at the proposition. "yes," he say with

animation. "yes. as many as you please."



she cross the room to her desk, take out three or four letter

indiscriminately from a bundle lie there, and bring they to he.

he detain the pretty hand as well as the letter, and take some

impassioned kiss from the blushing face, turn up unconsciously to

his. sweeter kiss than Arthur Bohun would ever impress upon any

other face in afterlife. Ellen have almost learn not to shrink from

they in her maiden modesty; he vow to she that they be now his

good right and privilege.



but the letter tell he nothing. they be evidently a gentleman's

letter; but of the writer's position or family they say not a word.

Arthur return they with a half-sigh: it be of no use, he think,

to trouble himself any more about the matter. after all, his own

father and Mr. Adair have be close friend in India, and that be a

sort of guarantee that all must be right. this decide, he deliver

himself up to his ideal happiness: and the wedding day be finally

settle.



this afternoon, when they be pace the beach, unobservant of the

little cloud rise in the west, be the marriage eve. it be the last

day they need thus walk together as mere formal acquaintance: for at

that little church whose spire be not a stone's-throw away, they will

tomorrow be make man and wife. a strange light sit on Arthur Bohun's

cheek; the light of intense happiness. the day and the hour be

draw near to its realization: and not so much as a thought have

cross his mind that any untoward fate can arise to mar it.



ah, might not those dark cloud have read he a lesson? just as the

small circlet out there might gather into an overwhelming storm,

before which both man and beast must bow their head, so might be

rise, even then, some threaten wave in the drama of his life. and

it be so: though he suspect it not. even now, as they walk, the

cloud be increase! just as the unseen thunderstorm be about to

descend upon their life and heart. suddenly, in turn to face the

west, Arthur notice the altered aspect of the sky.



"look at those cloud, get up! I hope the weather's not go to

change for we tomorrow, Ellen. what do that mean?" he ask of a

man who be do something to his small boat, now high and dry upon

the beach.



the sailor glance up indifferently.



"it mean a storm, master."



"shall we get it here, do you think?"



"ay, sir. not till tomorrow, maybe. I fancy we shall, though"--giving

a look round, as if he could see the storm in the air. "I know there

be go to be a change."



"how do you know it?"



"Us fisherman see a storm afore it come, master. my foot tell it I

besides. I get he jammed once, and he have have the weather in he

ever since."



they walk on. "that will be two untoward event for we," remark

Captain Bohun; but he speak with a smile, as if no untoward event

could mar their happiness. "we want a third to complete it, don't we,

ellen?"



"what be the two?"



"the bad weather threaten for tomorrow; and Dick's non-arrival be

the other. I be vex at that."



for, on this same morning, Mrs. Cumberland have receive a letter from

her son. amidst other item of news, Dr. Rane mention that Richard

North be absent: it be suppose in Belgium, but no one know

positively where. this explain Richard's silence to Captain Bohun,

and put an end to the hope that Richard would be at the wedding. Dr.

Rane also state another thing, which be anything but pleasant news:

that beyond all doubt fever be break out at Dallory, though it be

not yet publicly know. the doctor add that he fear it would prove

of a malignant type, and he feel glad that his mother be away. bessy

be well, and send her love.



"will you rest a little before go in?"



they be pass the favourite old seat under the rock. Ellen

acquiesce, and they sit down. the black cloud grow large and

high: but, absorb in their own plan, their own happiness, have the

heaven become altogether overshadow it would have be as nothing

to they. in low tone they converse together of the future; begin

with the morrow, end they know not where. their vision be of the

sweetest rose-colour; they fully believe that bliss so great as their

own have never be find on earth. his arm be round Ellen as they

sit, her hand lie in his, her head seem rest against his heart.

to all intent and purpose they seem as entirely alone in this

shelter nook as they could have be in the wild of the desert. the

beach be shingly; footstep could not approach without be hear:

have any one pass, they would have be see sit as decorously

apart as though they have quarrel: but the shore seem desert

this afternoon.



the arrangement for the marriage be as follows:--At half-past eleven

o'clock, Arthur, Ellen, and Mrs. Cumberland would enter the little

church by a private door, and the ceremony would take place. Richard

North be to have give she away, but that be over now. Arthur hold

the licence; he have make a friend of the clergyman, and all would be

do quietly. he and Ellen be to go away for a few day; she would

then return home with Mrs. Cumberland, and be to the world still as

Miss Adair. after that, Arthur would take his own time, and be guide

by circumstance for declare the marriage: but he mean, if

possible, to at once introduce Ellen to his aunt, Miss Bohun.



and Ellen Adair? not a scruple rest on her mind, not a doubt

or hesitation on her heart; her father have give his cordial

approbation--as express in the letter to Mrs. Cumberland--and she

be full of peace.



"do you feel that, Ellen?"



a faint, quivering breeze have seem to pass over they with sudden

sharpness, and to die away in a moan.



some white sail out at sea flap a little, and the boat turn

homeward.



"we have well be go, too, my love; or we may have it upon we."



she rise as he speak, and they walk away. the sky be grow

darker; the shade of evening be begin to gather. Mrs.

Cumberland have be lie down and be dress, the maid say--if

Captain Bohun would wait. Ellen take off her bonnet and mantle.



"whilst we be alone, let I see that I have not make a mistake in the

size, Ellen."



take from his pocket a bit of tissue-paper, he unfold it and

disclose a wedding-ring. Ellen blush vividly as he try it on.

"I--thought," she timidly begin, "that you mean this to be my

wedding-ring"--indicating the plain gold one she habitually wear on

her right hand.



"no. Rane buy that one. this will be mine."



it fit exactly. Captain Bohun have not allow for the probability

of those fragile finger grow large with year. as he hold it on

for a minute, their eye meet. Ellen suddenly recall that long-past

day in Dallory Church, when she have take off Maria Warne's ring for

Bessy North, the after-scene in the carriage, when Arthur Bohun put

the other one on, and his sweet word: lastly, the scene in the garden

when he put it on again. this be time the third.



"if this should ever become too small for I?" she murmur, as he

take it off the finger.



"oh, but that--if ever--won't be for age and age."



not for age, and age! if, in their innocent unconsciousness, they

could only have see the cruel fate that be already coil its

mesh around they!



the storm do not come that night. but whether, in revenge for the

delay, it choose to expend itself with double violence, certain it be

that such a storm have seldom be see at Eastsea as rage in the

morning. the sky be lurid and angry; the sea toss itself in great

wave; the wind whistle and shriek; the rain dash furiously down

at interval: all nature seem at warfare.



in much distress lie Mrs. Cumberland. exceedingly subject of late to

outer influence, whether it might be the storm that affect she, she

know not, but she feel unable to rise from her bed. the hour for the

marriage be draw on. it have be fix for half-past eleven. the

clergyman have a funeral at half-past ten; and Mrs. Cumberland have say

that she herself could not be ready before that time. at a little

after eleven Arthur Bohun come up in the fly that be to convey they

to church. Mrs. Cumberland send to ask he to go upstairs to she; and

he find she in tear. a curious eight in so self-contain a woman.



"I cannot help it, Captain Bohun: indeed I cannot. have not the

marriage well be put off for a day? I may be well tomorrow."



"certainly not," he answer. "why should it be put off? I be very

sorry for Ellen's sake; she would have feel happy have you be in

church. but your presence be not essential to the ceremony, Mrs.

Cumberland."



"her father and mother be my dear friend. it seem as though I

should fail in my duty if I be to allow she to go to church without

I."



Arthur Bohun laugh. he would not listen to a word--be it likely

that he would do so? in less than an hour's time all responsibility in

regard to Ellen would be transfer to himself, he answer, for he

should be her husband.



"the marriage will be perfectly legal, dear Mrs. Cumberland, though

you do not witness it," be his last word as he go downstairs.



Ellen be ready. she wear an ordinary silk dress of light quiet

colour, and a plain white bonnet: such as she might have walk out in

at Eastsea. there be nothing, save her pale face and quiver lip,

to denote that she be a bride. to have to go to church alone be very

unpalatable to she, and she could with difficulty suppress her tear.



"my dearest love, I be more grieve at it for your sake than you can

be," he whisper. "take a little courage, Ellen; it will soon be

over. once you be my wife, I will strive to shelter you from all

vexation."



but this illness of Mrs. Cumberland's make a slight alteration in the

programme. for Arthur Bohun to go out with Mrs. Cumberland and Ellen

in a fly, be nothing; he sometimes accompany they in their drive:

but to go out alone with Ellen, and in that storm, would have excite

the curiosity of Ann and the other servant. Arthur Bohun rapidly

decide to walk to church, brave the rain: Ellen must follow in the

fly. there be no time to be lose. it be twenty minute past eleven.



"shall I put you in the carriage first, Ellen?" he stay to ask.



"no. I think you have well not."



"my darling, you _will come?_"



do a doubt cross he, that he should say this? but she answer that

she would: he see she speak sincerely. he wring her hand and go out

to the door.



have the fly multiply itself into two flies?--and be they

squabble for precedence? certainly two be there: and the one wet

driver be abuse the other wet driver for hold his place before

the door, and not allow he to draw up to it.



"Arthur! Good Heavens, how fortunate I be! Arthur Bohun! don't you see

I?"



every drop of blood in Arthur Bohun's vein seem to stand still and

turn to ice as he recognize his mother's voice and his mother's face.

Madam, drive hastily from the railway-station, have come to bear he

off bodily. that his wedding be over for that day, instinct at once

tell he: she would have go to church and forbid the bann. he

step to the fly door.



in afterlife, he could never clearly recall these next few minute.

Madam speak of the telegram that have be receive at Dallory. she

say--give to matter her own colouring--that James Bohun be in

extremity; that he only wait to see Arthur to die; that he be

ask for he: not a moment be to be lose. she have hasten to

London on receipt of the telegram, and have now come down to fetch he.



"step in, Arthur. we must catch the quarter-to-twelve train."



"I--I cannot go," he answer.



"not go!" scream madam. "but I command you to go. would you disobey

the last wish of a die man?"



well, no; he feel that he could not do that. "a quarter to twelve?" he

say rather dreamily. "you must wait, madam, whilst I speak to Mrs.

Cumberland. there's plenty of time."



he go in with his tale, and up to Mrs. Cumberland, as one in a

dream. he be force to go, he bewail, but not for more than a day,

when he should be back to complete the marriage. what could she

answer? in her bewilderment, she scarcely understand what have

happen. leap downstairs again, he close the door of the

sitting-room upon himself and Ellen, and clasp she to his heart.



"my darling! but for this, you would have be on your way to become

my wife. come what may, Ellen, I shall be down again within a few

hour. God bless you, my love! take care of these."



they be the ring and licence; he hand they to she lest he might

lose they. before Ellen could recover herself, whilst yet her face be

glow with his farewell kiss, he be be rattle away in the fly

with madam to the station.



Crafty madam! wait in the fly at the door and make she

observation, she have read what the sign mean almost as surely as

though she have be tell. the other fly wait, and Ellen dress;

go out in it on that stormy day; Arthur out of mourning, his attire

cover with a light overcoat. she guess the truth (aid by the

mysterious hint in the letter she have open) and believe surely

that nothing less than a marriage have she interrupt. not a word say

she on the way to the station. get he away be a great victory:

it would not do to risk mar it. but when they be in the train,

and the whistle have sound, and they be fairly off, then madam

speak. they have the compartment to themselves.



"Arthur, you cannot deceive I: any attempt to do so would be useless.

you be about to marry Ellen Adair."



she speak quietly, almost affectionately; when the bosom be beat

with a horrible dread, it produce calmness of manner rather than

passion. for a single moment there waver in Arthur Bohun's mind a

doubt as to whether it should be avowal or evasion, but not for

long. as it have come to this, why he must take his standing, he

raise his head proudly.



"Eight, mother. I be go to wed Ellen Adair."



Madam's pulse begin to beat nineteen to the dozen. her head grow hot,

her hand cold.



"you _be_, you mean, Arthur."



"yes. put it as you like. what be interrupt to-day, will be

conclude tomorrow. as soon as I have see James, I shall return to

Eastsea."



"Arthur! Arthur Bohun! it must never be conclude, never."



"Pardon I, mother. I be my own master."



"a Bohun may not wed shame and disgrace."



"shame and disgrace cannot attach to _her_. Madam, I must beg you to

remember that in a few hour that young lady will be my wife. do not

try my temper too sorely."



"no, not to she, but to her father," panted madam--and Arthur feel

frightened, he know not why, at her strong emotion. "would you wed the

daughter of a--a----"



Madam pause. Arthur look at she; his compressed lip tremble just

a little.



"of a what, mother? pray go on."



"of everything that be bad. a forger. a convict."



there be a dead pause. nothing to be hear but the whirling train.

"A--what?" gasp Captain Bohun, when he could get back his breath.



"a convict," burst forth madam in a scream; for her agitation be

become irrepressible. "why do you make I repeat painful thing?"



"Mother! of whom do you speak?"



"of her father: William Adair."



he fall back in the carriage as one who be shoot. as one from whom life

and all that can make it sweet, have suddenly go out for ever.









CHAPTER XIII.

PANIC.





the funeral be go about in Dallory. Dr. Rane's prognostication

have prove correct; the fever be severe. it spread, and a panic set

in.



as yet it have be confine to the poor. to those who for some month

now have be live in despair and poverty. some call it a famine

fever; some a relapse fever; some typhus fever: but, whatever the

name accord to it, one thing be certain--it be of a malignant and

fatal type.



it possess a somewhat singular feature: it have seem to break out

all at once--in a single night. before the doctor have well

ascertain that anything of the kind be in the air, before most of

the public have so much as hear of it, it come upon they. the

probability of course be that it have be smoulder for some day.

on the afternoon that witness madam's departure from Dallory

Hall--after the receipt of the telegram and the reading of Dick's

letter--there have not be one decide case: in the morning no less

than seven case have show themselves. after that, it spread rapidly.



Madam remain away. James Bohun be dead, and she stay with Sir

Nash. Matilda North, take French leave, go up to join she without

an invitation; she do not care to stay in the midst of the sickness.

so the master of Dallory Hall be alone, and enjoy his liberty as

much as trouble have leave he any capacity for enjoyment.



a week or ten day have pass on since the outbreak, and the funeral

be go about Dallory. the two medical man, Dr. Rane and Mr.

Seeley, be work nearly off their leg. the panic be at its

height. Dallory have be an exceptionally healthy place: people be

not use to this state of thing, and grow frightened. some of the

well family take flight, for the seaside, or elsewhere. the

long-continue distress, result on the strike, have predispose the

poor class for it. it be they whom it chiefly attack, but there

be now two or three case amongst their better. this be no time

for the medical man to speculate whether they should or should not be

pay; they put all such consideration aside, and give the poor

sufferer their good care. Dr. Rane in particular be tenderly

assiduous with his patient. in spite of that fatal letter and the

mistake--nay, the sin--it involve, he be a humane man. be he a

successful practitioner, make his hundred or his thousand a-year,

as might be, he would be one of the first and readiest to give away

largely of his time and skill to any who could not afford to pay he.



the last person whom the fever have attack be one of the brother

Hepburn, of Dallory, undertaker, carpenter, and coffin-maker. both

be sickly man, but very steady and respectable. the young brother,

Henry, be the one seize: it be universally assume that he catch

it in the discharge of certain of the duty of his calling, and the

supposition do not tend to decrease the public panic. Dr. Rane

think he a bad subject for the illness, and do all he could for

he.



Bessy Rane stand in her kitchen, make an apple pudding. it be rather

a sudden transition of subject, from sickness to pudding, but only in

accordance with life. whatever calamity may be decimate society

around, the domestic routine of existence go on at home in its

ordinary course. molly Green be pudding-maker in general: but molly

be hasten over her other work that day, for she have obtain leave

to go home in the evening to see her mother: a woman who have be

ail for year with chronic illness, and live at Whitborough. so

Bessy this morning take the pudding upon herself.



Mrs. Rane stand at the table; a brown holland apron tie over her

light morning gown, her sleeve turn up to the middle of her

delicate arm. hand and wrist and arm be alike pretty and

refine. the apple be in a basin, ready pare, and she be roll

out the crust. ever and anon she glance at the kitchen clock. she

husband have be call out at four o'clock that morning, and she be

grow a little anxious. now it be close upon eleven. it cannot be

say that Bessy be afraid of the fever for he: she share in the

popular belief that medical man be generally exempt from infection;

but she be always glad to see he arrive home safe and well.



his latch-key be hear in the door whilst she be think of he.

Dr. Rane go straight up to the unused top-room, change his clothe,

and wash his hand and face--a precaution he always take when he have

be with fever patient. Bessy put the kitchen-door open, that he

might see she when he come down.



"pudding-making, Bessy!" he cry, look in. "why don't you let

molly do that?"



"Molly's busy. she want to go home this evening, Oliver, as soon as

we can spare she, and will not come back until tomorrow night. she

receive a letter this morning to say her mother have at last take to

her bed, and the doctor think she very ill. I have give her leave to

go."



"but how shall you manage without she?"



"I shall have old Phillis in. molly have be to she, and she say

she'll be glad to come."



Dr. Rane say no more. it be quite the same to he whether molly or

Phillis do what be want. when man be harass in spirit, they

cannot concern themselves with the petty detail of domestic life.



"I be think, Oliver, that--if you don't mind--as we can have

Phillis, I would leave it to Molly whether to come back tomorrow

night, or not. if her mother be really grow bad, the girl may

like to stay a day long with she."



"my dear, do just as you like about it," be the doctor's rather

impatient answer.



"your breakfast shall be ready in a moment, Oliver."



"I have take breakfast. it be between eight and nine before I could

get away from Ketler's, and I go and beg some of Mrs. Gass. after

that I go the round of the patient."



Bessy be put the crust into the basin. she lift her hand and

turn in some dismay.



"surely, Oliver, they have not get the fever at Ketler's!"



Dr. Rane laugh slightly. "not the fever, bessy: something else. the

baby. it be Ketler who call I up this morning."



"oh dear," say Bessy, go on with her pudding. "I think that poor

baby be not expect for a month or two. how will they manage to keep

it? it seem to I that the less food there be for they, the quick

the baby come."



"that's generally the case," observe Dr. Rane.



"be the mother well?"



"tolerably so."



"and--how be the other thing go on, Oliver?"



he know, by the tone of her voice, that she mean the fever. bessy

never speak of that without a kind of timidity.



"neither well nor bad. it's very bad still."



"and fatal?"



"yes, and fatal. Henry Hepburn be in danger."



"but he will get over it?" rejoin Bessy quickly.



"I don't think so. his brother will have it next if he do not mind.

he be as nervous over it as he can be. I be off now, Bessy, up the

Ham."



"you will be in to dinner?"



"before that, I hope."



Bessy settle to her pudding again, and the doctor depart. not into

danger this time, for the fever have not yet show itself in Dallory

Ham. Scarcely a minute have elapse when the door-bell rang, and molly

go to answer it. Mrs. Rane, her hand all flour, peep from the

kitchen, and see Mr. North.



"oh papa! how glad I be to see you! do you mind come in here?"



Mind! Mr. North feel far more at home in Bessy's kitchen than in his

wife's grand drawing-room. he have bring a small open basket of

lovely hot-house flower for Bessy. he put it on the table, and sit

down on one of the wooden chair in peace and comfort. Richard have not

return, and he be still alone.



"go on with your pudding, my dear. don't mind I. I like to see it."



"it's all but do, papa. molly will tie it up. oh, these beautiful

flower!" she add, bend down to they. "how kind of you to think

of I!"



"I'm go to Ham Court about some seed, child; the walk will do I

good, this pleasant day. I feel strong and well, Bessy, than I

do."



"I be so glad of that, papa."



"and so I think--as I intend to call in here--that I would cut a

few blossom, and bring they with I. how's the fever get on,

bessy?"



"it be not any well, I be afraid, papa."



"so I hear. they say that Henry Hepburn's dying."



Bessy feel startle. "oh, I trust not! though I think--I fear--Oliver

have not very much hope of he."



"well, I've hear it. and I come here, Bessy, to ask if you would not

like to come to the Hall for a week or two. it might be safe for you.

be you at all afraid of catch it, child?"



"N--o," answer Bessy. but it be speak doubtfully, and Mr. North

look at she.



"your husband have to be amongst it pretty well every hour of his life,

and I can only think there must be some risk in it for you. you have

well come to the Hall."



"Oliver be very careful to change his clothe when he come in; hut

still I know there must of course be some little risk," she say. "I

try to be quite brave, and not think of it, papa: and I have a great

piece of camphor here"--touching the bosom of her dress--"at which

Oliver laugh."



"which be as good as confess that you be nervous about it, Bessy,"

say Mr. North.



"not very, pupa. a doctor's wife, you know, must not have fancy."



"well, come up to the Hall to-day, Bessy. it will be a change for you,

and pleasant for I, now I'm alone; it will be like some of the old

day come back again, you and I together. as to Oliver, I dare say

he'll be glad to have the house to himself a bit, whilst he be so

busy."



Bessy, wipe the flour off her hand, consent. in point of fact,

her husband have propose, some day ago, that she should go away: and

she do feel half afraid of take the fever through he.



"but it cannot be until tomorrow, papa," she say, as Mr. North rise

to depart, and she accompany he to the door, explain that molly

be go home. "I should not like to leave Oliver alone in the house

for the night. Phillis will be here tomorrow: she can stay and sleep,

should Molly Green not return."



"very well," say Mr. North.



so it be leave. Bessy open the door for her father, and watch he

on his way up the Ham.



Dr. Rane come back to dinner; and find his patient allow he an

hour's peace for it. Bessy inform he of the arrangement she have

make: and that he be to be a bachelor from the morrow for an

indefinite period. the doctor laugh, make a jest of it:

nevertheless he glance keenly from under his eyelid at his wife.



"Bessy! I do believe you be afraid!"



"no, not exactly," be her answer: "I don't think 'afraid' be the

right word. it be just this, Oliver: I do not get nervous about it;

but I cannot help remember rather often that you may bring it home

to I."



"then, my dear, go--go by all mean where you will be out of harm's

way, so far as I be concern."



Dinner over, Dr. Rane hasten out again, on his way to see Mrs.

Ketler. he have just reach that bench in the shady part of the road

at the neck of the Ham, when he see Jelly come along. the doctor

only wish there be some shelter to dart into, by which he might

avoid she. ever since the night when he have hear that agreeable

conversation as he sit under the cedar-tree, Jelly's keen green eye

have be bad than poison to he. she stop when she meet he.



"so that child of Susan Ketler's be come, sir!"



"ay," say Dr. Rane.



"what in the world bring it here now?"



"well, I don't know," return the doctor. "child often come

without give their friend due notice. I be on my way there."



"and not as much as a bed gown to wrap it in," resentfully go on

Jelly, "and not a bit of tea or oatmeal in the place for she! my

faith! baby after baby come into the world, and the man out on

strike! this make seven--if they'd all be alive: she'll be

content perhaps when she have seventeen."



"it be the way of the world, Jelly. Set up the child first, and

consider what to do with they afterwards."



"what's this that's the matter with Tim Wilks, sir?" demand Jelly,

abruptly change the subject.



"with Tim Wilks! I do not know that anything be the matter with

he."



"yes, there be," say Jelly. "I meet old Green just now, and he say

Timothy Wilks be in bed ill. they think it might be a bilious

attack, if it be not the fever."



"I'll call in and see he," say Dr. Rane. "have he be drink

again?"



Jelly's eye flash with resentment. consider that Tim have really

keep sober and steady for the past year and a half, she look on the

question as a frightful aspersion. more especially so as proceed

from Dr. Rane.



"_i_ can answer for it that he have not be drink--and so, as I

suppose, might everybody else," be her tart reply. "Timothy Wilks be

worried, sir; that's what it be. he have never be at ease since

people accuse he of write that anonymous letter: and he never will

be till he be publicly clear of it. Sir, I think he ought to be

clear."



be it an ice-bolt that seem to shoot through Oliver Rane's

heart?--or only a spasm? something take it: though he manage to keep

his countenance, and to speak with quiet indifference.



"Cleared? clear of what? I fancy it have be ascertain that

wilk be the man who speak of the affair out of Dale's office. he

cann't clear himself from that. as to any other suspicion, no one have

cast it on he."



"well, sir--of course _you know good_," answer Jelly, recollect

herself and cool down: but she could not help emphasize the

word. "if Tim should become dangerously ill, it might have to be do

to set his mind at rest."



"what might have to be do?" demand Dr. Rane with authority.



and Jelly do not dare to answer the direct question. she could boast

and talk _at_ people in her gossip way as long as she feel safe,

but when it come to anything like prove her word, she be a very

coward. Dr. Rane be look at she, wait for she to speak, his

manner stern and uncompromising.



"oh well, sir, I'm sure I don't know," she say, feel as if her

throat have dry up. "and I'm sure I hope poor Tim have not get the

fever."



"I'll call and see he," repeat Dr. Rane, proceed on his way.

Jelly curtsy and go on her.



when beyond her view, he take out his handkerchief and wipe his face,

damp as with the dew of death. he must, he must get away from Jelly

and Dallory! but for have a wife on his hand, he might have felt

tempt to make a hasty flitting to America and join Dr. Jones. join

Dr. Jones? but how obtain the fund to do it with? his thought

turn, as they ever do on these occasion, to that money of his

lock up in the Tontine. _of his_: that be how Dr. Rane have come to

regard it. that money would bring he salvation. if he could only

obtain it----



a bow from some white-haired old gentleman, pass in a carriage. Dr.

Rane return it, the singular coincidence of his appearance at that

moment flash through his mind. for it be Sir Thomas Ticknell. yes:

it truly seem that that Tontine money would be nothing less than

salvation to he. he go on with a great fear and pain in his

throb heart, wonder for how long or how short a time Jelly

would keep her counsel.



the next morning be Thursday. it bring news that almost strike

people dumb: Henry Hepburn, the undertaker, be dead, and Mrs. Rane

have be seize with the fever. Dr. Rane's account be, that his wife

have be very restless all night; he give she a compose draught,

which seem to be of use for the time: but upon attempt to get up

she be attack with nausea and faintness, and have to go back to bed.

the symptom that subsequently set in he fear be those of fever.



it be an awkward time for Bessy to be ill, as Molly Green have go

homo: but Phillis, an excellent substitute, be there. she attend on

Mrs. Rane, and the doctor go abroad to his patient. Mr. North,

disappoint at Bessy's non-arrival, hearing of her indisposition,

come to the house; but Bessy send down an urgent message by Phillis,

beg he not to run any danger by come up to her chamber. and Mr.

North, docile and obedient--as madam in her imperiousness have train

he to be--leave his good love, and go home again.



in the course of the morning Dr. Rane call in at Hepburn's. it be a

double shop and house; in the one be sell article of furniture, in

the other the carpenter's work be carry on. Thomas Hepburn and his

family live in the former; Henry, now dead, have occupy the latter.

he be a married man, but have no child. when Dr. Rane enter the

second shop, he do not at first see Thomas Hepburn; the shutter up

at the window make the place dark, come in from the bright sunshine.

Thomas Hepburn see he, however, and come forward from the workshop

behind, where he have be look on at his man. various article

seem to be in the course of active construction, coffin amongst the

rest.



"I be very sorry for this loss, Hepburn," begin the doctor.



"well, sir, I've not have any hope from the first," sigh Hepburn, his

face look careworn and unusually sickly in the half light. "I don't

think poor Henry have."



"the fact be, Hepburn, he have not strength to carry he through the

disorder; it do not attack he lightly. I do all I could."



"yes, sir, I'm sure of that," return Hepburn--and what with his

naturally weak voice, and the hammering that be go on behind, Dr.

Rane have to listen with all his ear to catch the word. "we've be

an ail family always: liable to take disorder, too, more than

other."



Dr. Rane make no reply for the moment. he be look at the speaker.

something in his aspect suggest the suspicion that the man be in

actual fear himself.



"you must keep up a good heart, you know, Hepburn."



"I'd rather go a hundred mile, sir, than do what I've get to do just

now amidst the dead," say Hepburn, glance round, "_that's_ how my

brother take it."



"let the workman go instead of you."



the undertaker shake his head. "one _have_ to go with I; and the other

be just as afraid as can be. no, I must go on myself. there'll be

double work for I, now Henry's go."



"well, Hepburn, I begin to think the fever be on the turn," say the

doctor cheerily, as he walk away.



the day wear on. Mrs. Rane's symptom be decidedly those of fever,

and the doctor go all the way to Whitborough himself: not far in

point of distance, only that he could not well spare the time: to tell

molly Green she be to keep where she be, out of harm's way, and not

return until send for. when he return home his wife be bad.

Phillis meet he at the door, and say her poor mistress's face be

scarlet, and she roll her head from side to side. Phillis want to

remain the night, but the doctor would not have it: there be no

necessity for it, he say, and she have well not be subject to

infection more than could be help. so Phillis go away at ten

o'clock.



between eleven and twelve, just as Mr. Seeley be prepare for rest,

Dr. Rane come in and ask he to go over to see his wife. the surgeon

go at once. Bessy be lie in her comfortable chamber, just as

Phillis have describe--her face scarlet, her head turn uneasily on

the pillow. a candle stand on the table, dimly light the room; Mr.

Seeley take it close to inspect her face; but Bessy put up her hand

and turn her head away, as if the light disturb she.



"she seem slightly delirious," whisper Mr. Seeley apart, and Dr.

Rane nod. after that, the two doctor talk together a little on

the stair, and Mr. Seeley go away, say he would come again in

the morning.



in the morning, however, Dr. Rane go over to tell he that his wife,

after a most restless night, have drop into a quiet doze, and have

well not be disturb. he feel sure she be well. this be Friday.



Phillis arrive betime. she find a wet sheet flap in the grey

ante-room, just outside the bedroom door, which Dr. Rane have saturate

with disinfect fluid. Jars of disinfectant stand on the wide

landing, on the staircase, and in other part of the house. Phillis

have no fear, and go in behind the flap sheet. she could make

nothing of Mrs. Rane. instead of the scarlet face and restless head,

she now lie bury in her pillow, still, and pale, and intensely

quiet. Phillis offer she some tea; Mrs. Rane just open her eye,

and feebly motion it away with her hand, just as she have motion

away the light the previous night. "it's a sudden change," think

Phillis. "I don't like it."



later in the morning, Dr. Rane bring up Mr. Seeley. she lie in

exactly the same position, deep in the pillow. what with that, and

what with the large night-cap, the surgeon could get to see very

little of her face.



"don't disturb I," she faintly say, when he would have arouse she

sufficiently to get a good look. "I be easy now."



"do you know I?" question Mr. Seeley, bend over she.



"yes," she answer, open her eye for a moment. "let I sleep; I

shall be well tomorrow."



"how do you feel?" he ask.



"only tired. let I sleep."



"Bessy," say her husband, in the persuasive voice he use to the

sick, "willn't you just turn to Mr. Seeley?"



"to-morrow. I want to sleep."



and so they do not disturb she far. after all, sleep do

wonder, as Dr. Rane remark.



it might have be that Mr. Seeley go away somewhat puzzle,

scarcely think that the fever have be on she sufficiently long to

leave she in this state of exhaustion.



as the day go on a rumour be whisper that Mrs. Rane be die.

whence it arise none could trace, unless from a word or two drop by

Dr. Rane himself to Thomas Hepburn. they happen to meet in the

street, and the undertaker stop to inquire after Mrs. Rane. she be

in a most critical state, be the doctor's answer; the night would

decide it, one way or the other.



Phillis go up to her mistress several time. Dr. Rane keep the

hang sheet well saturate, and flap it often. Mrs. Rane never

seem to rouse herself throughout the day: seem, in fact, to sleep

through it. Phillis begin to hope that it be indeed comfortable,

refreshing rest, and that she would wake from it well.



"you'll let I stay here to-night, sir?" she say, when there be

nothing more to be do, as Dr. Rane--who have be out--come in, and

pass by the kitchen.



"no need," he answer in his decisive manner. "be here the first

thing in the morning."



Phillis put on her shawl and bonnet, wish he goodnight, and

depart. it be about ten o'clock. Dr. Rane see she out and go up

to the sick room. in less than five minute he come down again with a

white face, open the front-door, and stride across the road to Mr.

Seeley's. the latter be in his surgery, in the act of pour some

medicine into a small phial.



"Seeley! Seeley! my wife be go!"



what with the suddenness of the interruption, and the word, the

surgeon be so startled that he drop the bottle.



"Gone!" he cry. "do you mean _dead?_"



"I do."



"why, when I see you at dusk, you tell I she be sleep

comfortably!" say the surgeon, stare at Dr. Rane. "Phillis also

say it."



"and so she be. she be to all appearance. Heaven be my witness that

I think and believe the sleep then to be natural, and be

refresh she. she must have die in it. I go up now, and find

she--find she--go."



Oliver Rane put his arm on Mr. Seeley's counter and bend his face to

hide his emotion. the surgeon in the midst of his surprise, have hardly

ever feel so sorry for any one as he feel in that moment for his

brother practitioner.









CHAPTER XIV.

what JELLY SAW.





"it be too true; Mrs. Rane be dead," say sympathize people one to

the other; for even that same night the sad tiding go partially out

to Dallory. what with the death of Hepburn the undertaker, and now the

doctor's wife--both prominent people, as might be say, in connection

with the sickness--something like consternation fall on those who

hear it. Dr. Rane carry the news himself to Dallory Hall, catch

Mr. North just as he be go to bed, and impart it to he in the

most gentle and soothing manner in his power. fear that if leave

until morning, it might reach he abruptly, the doctor have thus make

haste. from thence he go on to Hepburn's. he have chance to meet

Francis Dallory in come out of Seeley's; he meet some one else he

know; these carry the tiding to other; so that many hear of it

that night.



but now we come to a strange and singular thing that happen to

Jelly. jelly in her tart way be sufficiently good-hearted. there be

sickness in Ketler's house: the wife have her three day' old infant:

the little girl, Cissy, grow bad and weak: and Jelly choose to

sacrifice an afternoon to nurse they. much as she disapprove of the

man's join the Trades' Union and uphold the strike, often as she

have assure he that both starve and the workhouse, whichever he

might prefer, be too good for he, now that misfortune lie upon the

house, Jelly come-to a little. Susan Ketler be her cousin; and, after

all, she be not to blame for her husband's wrong doing. accordingly,

in the afternoon of the last day of Mrs. Rane's illness, Jelly go

forth to Ketler's, arm with some beef-tea, and a few scrap for the

half-famish child, the whole enclose in a reticule.



"I shall take the latch-key," she say, in start, to the cook, who

be commonly call Dinah, "so you can go to bed. if Susan Ketler's

very ill I shall stop late. mind you put a box of match on the slab

in the hall."



Susan Ketler be not very ill, Jelly find; but the child, Cissy, be.

so ill, that Jelly hardly know whether to leave she at all, or not.

the mother could not attend to she; Ketler have go tramp off

beyond Whitborough after Union work, and have not return. only that

she think Mrs. Cumberland would not be pleased if she come to hear

that Jelly, the confidential servant in charge, have stay out for a

night, leave the house with only the cook in it, she have certainly

remain. at past twelve poor Ketler arrive home, dead beat, sick,

faint, having walk several mile without food. Jelly blow he up a

little: she consider that the man who could refuse work when his

child be starve, because he belong to the Trades' Union,

deserve nothing but blow-up: bade he look to Cissy, tell he

ungraciously that there be a loaf in the pan, and depart. Ketler,

ready to drop though he be, civilly offer to see her home; but all

the thank he receive in return, be a recommendation to attend to

his own concern and not to meddle with her.



it be a fine, still night, rather too warm for the illness that have

fall upon Dallory; and Jelly walk on at a swift pace, her

reticule, empty now, on her arm. some woman might have feel timid at

the midnight walk: Jelly be too strong-minded to feel anything of the

sort. she certainly find it a little lonely on enter the Ham, as

if the road under the overshadow tree, begin now to lose some

of their leave, have something weird about it. but this part be soon

pass; and Jelly come to the house, and within sight of home. not a

soul meet she: it be as dreary, as far as human companionship go, as

it could be. a black cat spring suddenly from the hedge, and tore

across the road almost touch Jelly's foot; and it make her start.



she begin think about Mrs. Rane; quite unconscious of the death

that have take place. when Jelly leave home in the afternoon Mrs. Rane

be say to be in danger: at least such be Phillis's opinion,

privately communicate: but, late in the evening, news have be

bring to Keller's that all danger be over. Mrs. Rane be in a

refreshing sleep, and go on safely to recovery.



"and I'm downright glad of it, poor young lady!" say Jelly, half

aloud, as she turn in at her gate. "doctor' wife be naturally

more exposed to the chance of catch infectious illness. but on

the other hand they have the good advice and care at hand."



it be strike one. let herself in with the latch-key, Jelly feel

for the box of match, pass her hand cautiously over the marble

table. and pass it in vain: no match be there.



"forgetful hussy!" ejaculate Jelly, apostrophize the unconscious

Dinah. "much good she's of!"



so Jelly creep quietly upstairs in the dark, know she have match

in her own chamber: and in a minute come upon another of the negligent

Dinah's delinquency. she have omit to draw down the blind of the

large window on the landing.



"she have be out at that back-door, talk to people," quoth Jelly

in her wrath. "just like she! willn't she catch it from I in the

morning!"



turn to draw the blind herself, she be suddenly arrest, with the

cord in her hand, by something on the opposite landing, at Dr. Rane's.

stand there, dress in something white, which Jelly at the time

thought look like a nightgown, be Mrs. Rane. the landing be

faintly light, as if by some distant candle; but Mrs. Rane be

perfectly visible, her feature and even their expression quite clear.

the first thought that cross Jelly be, that Mrs. Rane be

delirious: but she look too still for that. she do not move; and

the eye gaze with a fix stare, as it seem to Jelly. but that she

herself must have be invisible in the surround darkness, she

would have think Mrs. Rane be stare at _her_. for a full minute

this last: Jelly watching, Mrs. Rane never move.



"what in the world bring she stand there?" quoth Jelly in her

amazement. "and what can she be stare at? it cann't be at I."



but at that moment Jelly's bag slip from her arm, and fall on the

carpet. it cause she to remove her gaze from the opposite landing for

a single second--it really do not seem long. when she look again,

the place be in darkness: Mrs. Rane and the faint light have both

disappear.



"she have no business to be out of her bed--and the doctor ought to

tell she so if he's at home," think Jelly. "anyway, she must be a

great deal well: for I don't think it's delirium."



she wait a short time, but nothing more be see. draw down the

blind, Jelly pick up her bag, and pass on to her own chamber--one

of the back room on this first floor. there she sleep undisturbed

until morning.



she do not get up until late. be amenable to no one whilst Mrs.

Cumberland be away, the house's mistress in fact, as well as Dinah's,

Jelly do not hurry herself. she be not lazy in general, especially

on a Saturday, but as she feel tired after her weary afternoon at

Ketler's and from having go so late to rest. breakfast be ready in

the kitchen when she go down; Dinah--a red-faced young woman in a

brown-spot cotton gown--be busy at the fire with the coffee.



"now then!" begin Jelly--her favourite phrase when she be angry.

"what have you to say for yourself? whereabout on the slab do you

put those match last night?"



Dinah, take-to, tilt the kettle back. until that moment she have not

think of her negligence.



"I'm afraid I never put 'em at all," she say.



"no you _don't_ put 'em," retort Jelly with sharp emphasis. "but for

have match and a candle in my room, I must have undress in the

dark. and I should like to know why you don't put 'em; and what you

be about not to do it?"



"I'm sure I'm sorry," say Dinah, who be a tractable sort of girl. "I

forget it, I suppose, in the upset about poor Mrs. Rane."



"in the upset about poor Mrs. Rane," scornfully repeat Jelly. "what

upset you, pray, about her?--And you've never be out to fasten back

the shutter!"



"she's dead," answer Dinah--and the tear come into the girl's eye.

"that's what I've get the shutter half-to for. I think you'd most

likely not have hear it."



a little confusion arise in Jelly's mind. thought be rapid. Mrs.

Rane's death, as she suppose, could not possibly have occur before

morning: the neglect, as to the match, be last night. but, in the

present shock she pass this over. her sharp tone disappear as by

magic: her expression change to sadness.



"dead? when do she die, Dinah?"



"it be about nine o'clock last night, they think. and she lie an hour

after that in her bed, Jelly, before it be find out."



on hear this, Jelly's first impression be that Dinah must be

trifle with she. the girl come from the fire with the coffee, the

tear visible.



"now what d'ye mean, girl? Mrs. Rane don't die last night--as I can

answer for."



"oh but she do, Jelly. Dr. Rane go up to she at ten o'clock--he have

be out till then--and find she dead. I can tell you, I don't half

like go all the way up to bed by myself to that top floor, and I

alone in the house, know she be lie there at the very next

door."



Jelly pause to take in the full sense of the word, stare the while

at Dinah. what could it all mean?



"you must have take leave of your sense," she say, as she begin to

pour out the coffee.



"I'm sure I've not," return Dinah. "why?"



"to tell I Mrs. Rane die last night. how do you pick up the tale?"



"Jelly, it's no tale. it's as true as you and I's here. I be

stand at the front gate for a breath of air, before shut-up,

when Dr. Rane come out of his house in a hurry, and go across to Mr.

Seeley's. it strike I that Mrs. Rane might be bad and that he have

go to fetch the other, so I stay a bit to see. presently--it

ben't long--he come back across the road again. Mr. Francis Dallory

happen to be pass, and he ask after Mrs. Rane. she be dead,

the doctor say; and go on to tell he how he have find she. you

needn't look as if you think I be make-up story, Jelly. they

stand close by the doctor's gate, and I hear every word."



Jelly do not precisely know how she look. if this be true,

why--what could be the meaning of what she have see in the night?



"she cann't be dead?"



"she be," say Dinah. "why should you dispute it?"



Jelly do riot say why. she drink her hot coffee, and go out. she

do not believe it. Dinah evidently do: but the girl might have

catch up some wrong story.



the first thing that strike Jelly, when outside, be the appearance of

the doctor's house. it be closely shut up, door and window, and the

blind be down. as Jelly stand, look up, she see Mr. Seeley

stand at his door without his hat. she go over and accost he.



"be it true, sir, that Mrs. Rane be dead?"



"quite true," be the answer. "she die yesterday evening, poor lady.

it be terribly sudden."



Jelly feel a very queer sensation come over she. but she be still

full of disbelief. Mr. Seeley be call from within, and Jelly

return and knock softly at Dr. Rane's door. Phillis open it, her

eye red with cry.



"Phillis, what be all this?" demand Jelly, in low tone. "when do

she die?"



"stop," interpose Phillis, bar her entrance. "you'd well not

come in. I be not afraid: and, for the matter of that, somebody must

be here: but it ben't well for those to run risk that needn't. the

doctor say it be the quick and most malignant case of they all."



"I never catch any disorder in my life, and I don't fear that I ever

shall," answer Jelly, quietly make her way to the kitchen. "_when_

do she die, Phillis?"



"about nine o'clock last evening, as be think. the minute and hour

will never be know for sure: at ten, when the doctor find she, she

be get cold. and for we below to have think she quietly

sleep!" wound up Phillis with a sob.



the queer sensation increase. Jelly have never experience anything

like it in her whole life. she stand against the dresser, stare

helplessly at Phillis.



"I don't _think_ she could have die last evening," whisper Jelly

presently.



"and I'm sure I as little thought she be die," return Phillis.

"the last time I go up be about half-after seven: she be asleep

then; that I'm positive of; and it seem a good healthy sleep, for

the breathing be as regular as could be. sometime after eight

o'clock, master go up: he come down and say she be still sleep,

and he hope she'd sleep till morning, and I'd well not go up again

for fear of disturb she. I don't go up, Jelly. I know if she wake

and want anything she'd ring: the bell-rope be to her hand. Master

go out to a patient, and I clear up the kitchen here. he come in

at ten o'clock. I be ready to go, but ask he if I should stay all

night. there be no need, he answer, missis be well; and I

go. I never hear nothing more till I come this morning. the milkman

get to the door just as I do; and he begin say what a sad thing it

be that she have die. 'who have die,' I ask he, and he say, 'why,

my missis.' Jelly, you might have knock I down with a breath of

wind."



by Jelly's look at this moment, it seem as if a breath of wind

might have do the same for she. her face and lip have turn livid.



"the master open the door to I: and tell I all about it: about his

find her dead close upon my go out," continue Phillis. "he's

frightfully cut up, poor man. not that there's any tear, but his face

be heavy and sad, like one who have never be in bed all night--as he

haven't be. I find a blanket on the dining-room sofa, so he must

have lain down there."



"where be he now?" ask Jelly.



"out. he be fetched to somebody at Dallory. I must stir up the pot,"

add Phillis, allude to the earthen jar that stand about with

disinfectant. "Master charge _I_ to do it every hour. it's safe for

the undertaker's man and other that have to come to the house."



arm with a piece of stick, she go into the hall, and give the

content of each jar a good stir. the dining-room door be open: Dr.

Rane's solitary breakfast be spread there, wait for he. from

thence, Phillis go up the staircase to the other jar. Jelly

follow.



"nasty stuff! I do hate the smell of it," mutter Phillis. "I

wouldn't come up if I be you," she add to Jelly, in the low,

hush voice that we be all apt to use when near the dead.



Jelly disregard the injunction. she believe herself safe: and be

not give to follow advice at the good of time. "what's that?" she

exclaim when she reach the landing.



the sheet that have be flap for two day outside the bedroom

door, now flap, wet as ever, on the landing before the door of the

ante-room. Dr. Rane consider this the well place for it now.

Phillis knock it a little with the stick to bring out its

property.



compare with the gloom of the rest of the house, with its draw

blind, this landing, with its wide, stare, uncovered window, be

especially bright. Jelly glanced round, it might have be think

nervously, only that she be not a nervous woman. here, in the middle

of the floor, at one o'clock in the morning, her face turn to that

window, have stand Mrs. Rane. if not Mrs. Rane--who?--or what?



"Phillis," whisper Jelly, "I should like to see she."



"you cann't," answer Phillis.



"Nonsense. I be not afraid."



"but you cann't, Jelly. she be fasten down."



"she is---- why what do you mean?" break off Jelly.



Phillis take up a corner of the sheet, unlock the door--in which the

key be leave--and open it half an inch for Jelly to peep in. there,

in the middle of the grey room stand a closed coffin, support on

trestle. in the shock of surprise Jelly fall back against the wall,

and begin to tremble.



the idea that come over she--as she say to some one afterwards--be,

that Mrs. Rane have be put into the coffin alive. what with the sight

of the previous night (and Jelly do not yet fully admit to herself

what that sight might have be), and what with this, she feel in a

sort of hopeless horror and bewilderment. recover a little, she

push past the sheet into the room, but with creep, timid step.



"Jelly, I wouldn't go in! the master charge _I_ not to do so."



but Jelly hear not. or, if she hear, do not heed. it be a common

deal shell: nail down. Jelly touch it with her finger.



"_when_ be she put in here, Phillis?"



"sometime during the night."



"and fasten down at once?"



"to be sure. I find it like this when I come this morning."



"but--why need there have be so much haste?"



"because it be safe so. safest for we that be live, as my master

say. the leaden one will be here to-day."



well--of course it be safe. Jelly could but acknowledge it, and

recover somewhat. she wish she have not see--that--in the night.

it be that sight, so unaccountable, that be now trouble her mind

so strangely.



with her usual want of ceremony, Jelly open the bedroom door and

look in. it have not be put straight: Phillis say her master would

not let she go in to do anything to it until the two room should have

be disinfect. medicine bottle stand about; the bed-clothe lie

over the foot of the bed, just as Hepburn's man must have place they

when they remove the dead. on the dressing-table lie a bow of blue

ribbon that poor Bessy have wear in her gown the last day she have one

on, a waistband with his buckle, and other trifle. Jelly begin to

feel oppressed, as if her breath be grow short, and come away

hastily. Phillis stand on the landing beyond the sheet.



"it seem like a dream, Phillis."



"I wish we could awake and find it one," answer Phillis,

practically, as she turn the key in the lock; and they go

downstairs.



not a minute too soon. before they have well reach the kitchen, Dr.

Rane's latch-key be hear.



"there's the master," cry Phillis under her breath, as he turn

into his consulting-room. "it's a good thing he don't find we up

there."



"I want to say a word to he, Phillis; I think I'll go in," say

Jelly, take a sudden resolution to acquaint Dr. Rane with what she

have see. the truth be, her mind feel so unhinged, know not what

to believe or disbelieve, that she think she must speak, or die.



"need you bother he now?--what's it about?" ask Phillis. "I'd let

he get his breakfast first."



but Jelly go on to the consulting-room; and find herself very

nearly knock down by the doctor--who be turn quickly out of it.

she ask if she could speak to he: he say yes, if she make haste;

but he want to catch Mr. Seeley before the latter go out.



"and your breakfast, sir?" call out Phillis in compassionate tone.



"I'll take some presently," be the answer. "what be it you want,

Jelly?"



Jelly carefully close the door before speak. she then enter on

her tale. at first the doctor suppose, by all this caution, that she

be about to consult he on some private ailment of her own; St.

Anthony's fire in the face, for instance, or St. Vitus's dance in the

leg; and think she might have choose a more fitting moment. but he

soon find it be nothing of the sort. with her hand press heavily

the back of the patient' chair, Jelly tell her tale. the doctor stand

face she, his arm fold, his back to the draw blind. at first he

do not appear to understand she.



"see my wife upon the landing in her nightgown?" he exclaim--and

Jelly think he look startled. "surely she be not so imprudent as

to get out of bed and go there!"



"but, sir, it be say that she be then dead!"



"dead when? she do not die until nine o'clock. she could not have

know what she be do," continue Dr. Rane, pass his hand over

his forehead. "perhaps she may then have catch a chill. Perhaps----"



"you be misunderstand I, sir," interrupt Jelly. "it be in the

night I see this; some hour after Mrs. Rane's death."



Dr. Rane look bewildered. he gaze narrowly at Jelly, as if

wonder what it be she would infer.



"not _last_ night?"



"yes, sir. or, I'd rather say this morning; for it be one o'clock. I

see she stand there as plainly as I see you at this moment."



"why, Jelly, you must have be dream?"



"I be as wide awake, sir, as I be now. I have just get home from

Ketler's. I cann't think what it be I do see," add Jolly, drop

her voice.



"you see nothing," be the decisive answer--and in the doctor's tone

there be some slight touch of anger. "Fancy play trick with the

good of we: it must have play you one last night."



"I have be think whether it be possible that--that--she be not

really dead, sir," persist Jelly. "whether she could have get up,

and----"



"be silent, Jelly. I cannot listen to this folly," come the stern

interruption. "you have no right to let your imagination run away with

you, and then talk of it as reality. I desire that you will never

speak another word upon the subject to I; or to any one."



Jelly's green eye seem to have borrow the doctor's bewildered look.

she gaze into his face. this be a most curious business: she could

not see as yet the faint gleam of a solution to it.



"it be surely she I see on the landing, sir, dead or alive. I could

swear to it. such thing have be hear of before now as swoon be

mistaken for death. when poor Mrs. Rane be leave alone after her

death--that is, her suppose death--if she revive; and get up; and

come out upon the landing----"



"hold your tongue," interpose the doctor, sharply. "how dare you

persist in this nonsense, woman! you must be mad or dream. an hour

before the time you speak of, my poor wife, dead and cold, be where

she be now--fasten down in her shell."



he abruptly leave the room with an indignant movement; leave Jelly

speechless with horror.



"fasten down," run her thought, "at twelve o'clock--dead and

cold--and I see she on the landing at one! oh, my goodness, what do

it mean?"









CHAPTER XV.

DESOLATION.





at the front-parlour window at Eastsea, sit Ellen Adair--look for

one who do not come. whatever trouble, trial, mystery might be

pass elsewhere, Eastsea be go through its usual monotonous

routine. how monotonous, Ellen Adair could have tell: and yet, even

here, something like mystery seem to be loom in the air.



"come what may, Ellen, I shall be down again within a few hour," have

be Arthur Bohun's parting word to she. but the hour and the day

pass on, and he come not.



to have one's marriage suddenly interrupt, and the bridegroom bear

off from, as may be say, the very church-door, be not more agreeable

to Ellen Adair than it would be to any other young lady. she watch

he away in the fly, whilst his kiss be yet warm upon her lip.

all that remain, be to make the good of the situation. she take off

her bonnet and dress, and lock up the ring and licence he have beg

she to take care of. until the morrow she suppose; only until the

morrow. Mrs. Cumberland send out a message to her own flyman to the

effect that, find herself unable to get up, she could not take she

drive, but he be to bring the fly at the same hour on the morrow.

Mrs. Cumberland also write a line to the clergyman.



the morrow come; and go. Ellen scarcely stir from the window,

which command a view of the road from the station; but she do not

see Captain Bohun. "Sir Nash's son must be bad, and he cannot

leave," she say to herself, strive to account for the delay, whilst

at the same time a vague undercurrent of uneasiness lie within she,

which she do she good not to recognize or listen to. "there will be a

letter tomorrow morning--or he himself will come."



but on the morrow there be no letter. Ellen watch the postman pass

the house, and she turn sick and white. Mrs. Cumberland--who be

well and have rise early, expect Captain Bohun, and that the

marriage would certainly take place that day--take the absence of

letter with philosophy.



"he might as well have write a line, of course, Ellen; but it only

show that he be come in by the first train. that will be due in

twenty minute."



Ellen stand at the window, watch: her spirit faint, her heart

beat. that vague undercurrent of uneasiness have grow into a

recognize fear now--but a fear she know not of what. she make no

pretence to eat any breakfast; she could not have swallow a

morsel have it be to save her life: Mrs. Cumberland say nothing,

except that she must take some after Captain Bohun have arrive.



"there's the train, Ellen. I hear the whistle."



Ellen sit behind the venetian blind at the window, glance through

it. three or four straggle passenger be at length perceive,

make their way down the street. but not one of they be Captain

Bohun. the disappointment be turn her heart to sickness, when a

station fly come career gaily up the street.



ah, how hope rise again! she might have know he would take a fly, and

not _walk_ up. the driver seem make for their house. Ellen's eye

grow bright; her pale cheek change to rose-colour.



"be that fly come here, my dear?"



"I think so, Mrs. Cumberland."



"then it be Captain Bohun. we must let the clergyman know at once,

Ellen."



the fly stop at their house, and Ellen turn away; she would not

seem to be look for he, though he be so soon to be her husband.

but--something be shrilly call out from the inside; upon which the

driver start on again, and pull up at the next door. a lady and

child get out. it be _not_ Captain Bohun.



I wonder whether disappointment so great ever fall on woman? great

emotion, whether of joy or sorrow, be always silent. the heart alone

knoweth its own bitterness, say the wise king, and a stranger may not

intermeddle with its joy. Ellen lay her hand for a minute or two on

her bosom; but she never speak.



"he will be here by the next train," say Mrs. Cumberland. "he _must_

come, you know, Ellen."



she watch through the livelong day. how its hour drag themselves

along she know not. imagination picture all sort of probability

that might bring he at any moment. he might post down: he might have

alight by mistake at the wrong station, and walk on: he might have

arrive by the last train, and be change his dress at the hotel

after travel. five hundred idea, alternate with despair,

present themselves to she. and thus the weary day go on. towards

night the same delusive hope of the morning again rise; the same

farce, of the possible arrival of Captain Bohun, be go through.



it be almost dark: for Ellen, watch ever, have not think about

light; and Mrs. Cumberland, tired with her long day, have go into

the small back dining-room to lie undisturbed on the sofa. the last

train for the night be steam in: Ellen hear the whistle. if it

do not bring Captain Bohun she think she could only give he up for

ever.



a short interval of suspense; and then--surely he be come! a fly or

two come rattle through the street from the station: and one of

they--yes--one of they draw up at the door. Ellen, think she have

learn wisdom, say to herself that she would not get up any undue

expectation in regard to this. foolish girl! when her whole heart be

throb and beat.



one of the house servant have go out, and be open the fly door.

a gentleman's hand throw out a light overcoat; a gentleman himself

leap out after it, and turn to get something from the seat. tall

and slender, Ellen think it be Captain Bohun: the light coat be

exactly like his.



and the terrible suspense be over! she should now know what the

mystery have be. he have write most likely, and the letter have

miscarry: how stupid she be not to have think of that before! she

hear his footstep in the passage: in another instant she should be

in his arm, feel his kiss on her lip. it be a moment's delirium

of happiness: neither more nor less. Ellen stand gaze at the door,

her colour come and go, her nervous hand clasp one within the

other.



but the footstep pass the sitting-room. there seem to be some

talk, and then the house subside into silence. where be he?

Whither have he go? not into the dining-room, as Ellen know, for Mrs.

Cumberland might not be awaken. gradually the idea came creep in,

and then bound onwards with a flash that, after all, it might not

have be Captain Bohun. a faint cry of despair escape she, and she

put her hand up as if to ward off some approach evil.



but the suspense at least must be put an end to; it be too great to

bear; and she ring the bell. Ann, who chiefly wait on they, answer

it.



"for light, Miss Ellen?"



"yes. who have just come here in a fly?"



"it's the landlady's son, miss. a fine, handsome man as ever be

see!"



when Mrs. Cumberland enter, Ellen sit, pale and quiet, on the low

chair. in truth the inward burden be become hard to bear. Mrs.

Cumberland remark that Captain Bohun have neither come nor write,

and she think it be not good behaviour on his part. and, with that,

she settle to her evening newspaper.



"why, Ellen! here's the death of James Bohun," she presently

exclaim. "he die the day after Arthur leave we. this account for

the delay, I suppose."



"yes," murmur Ellen.



"but not for his not write," resume Mrs. Cumberland. "that be very

strange. I hope," she add, smile, "that he do not intend to give

you up because he be now heir-presumptive to a baronetcy."



Mrs. Cumberland, as she speak, happen to look at Ellen, and be

strike by her expression. her face be pale as death; her eye have a

sort of wild fear, the lip tremble.



"my dear child, you surely do not take what I say in earnest! I

speak in jest. Captain Bohun be not a man to behave dishonourably; you

may quite rely upon that. have he come into a dukedom, you would still

be make his duchess."



"I think I will go to bed, if you don't mind my leave you," say

Ellen, faintly. "my head ache."



"I think you have well, then. but you have torment yourself into

that headache, Ellen."



to bed! it be a mere figure of speech. Ellen sit up in her room,

know that neither bed nor sleep could bring her ease--for she

dream the past two night have be bad than reality. she watch

for hour the tossing sea; it have never properly calm down since the

storm.



the morning bring a letter from Captain Bohun. to Mrs. Cumberland;

not to Ellen. or, rather a note, for it be not long enough to be

call a letter. it state that urgent circumstance have prevent his

return to Eastsea--and he would write far shortly. he add

that he be very unwell, and beg to be remember to Miss Adair.



to Miss Adair! the very formality of the message tell its tale.

something be wrong: it be evident even to Mrs. Cumberland. the

letter be short, constrained, abrupt; and she turn it about in

haughty wonder.



"what can the man mean? _this_ be not the way to write when thing be

at their present crisis. here the ring and licence be wait; here

the clergyman be hold himself in readiness from day to day; here

you be fret your heart out, Ellen, and he write such a note as

this! but for be his own handwriting, I know what I should think."



"what?" ask Ellen, hastily.



"why, that he be bad than he say. delirious. out of his sense."



"no, no; it be not that."



"I think if it be not, it ought to he," sharply retort Mrs.

Cumberland. "we must wait for his next letter, I suppose; there be

nothing else to be do."



and they wait. and the weary day drag their slow length along.





any position more cruelly difficult than that of Captain Bohun cannot

well be conceive. Madam's communication be not confine to the one

first revelation; she add another to it. at first there have be no

opportunity for more; the train stop at a branch station just

beyond Eastsea, and the carriage became fill with passenger.

Arthur, in his torment, would have far question his mother,

pray for elucidation; but madam demand in a whisper whether he

be mad, and then turn she back upon he. the people go all the

way to London, but as soon as Arthur have hand his mother into a cab,

on their way to Sir Nash Bohun's, he begin again. the storm that rage

at Eastsea have apparently extend its fury to London; the rain beat,

the wind blow, the street be as desert as London street at a

busy hour of the afternoon can be. Arthur shudder a little as he

glance out; the element just now seem as dark and war as his

fate.



"Mother, thing cannot rest here," he say. "you evade my question

in the train; you must answer they now. cannot you see how dreadful

this suspense must be to I? I be engaged to marry Ellen Adair: if not

to-day, some other day. and now you tell I that, which--which----"



which ought to break it off, he be about to say: but emotion stop

he. he raise his hand and wipe the moisture from his forehead.

Madam bend down, and kiss his hand. he do not remember to have be

kiss by she since he be a child. her voice assume a soft, tender

tone; something like tear stand in her eye.



"I can see how you suffer, Arthur; I be sure you must love she, poor

young lady; and I would give anything not to have to inflict pain or

disappointment on you. but what else can I do? you be my son: your

interest be dear to I: and I must speak. don't you remember how I

have always warn you against Miss Adair? but I never suspect there

would be cause for it so great as this."



he do remember it. this new soft mode of madam's become she well. in

the midst of his own trouble Arthur spare a moment to think that

perhaps he have in a degree misjudge she.



"I cannot understand how so frightful a charge can be bring against

Mr. Adair," speak Arthur. "what you tell I sound like a fable. I have

be give to understand that he and my father be close friend."



"as they be, once."



"and yet you say that he, Mr. Adair, be a--a----"



"a convict," speak madam, supply the word. "I cannot give you

detail, Arthur: only fact. he be try, out there, and convict.

he obtain a ticket-of-leave--which I dare say may not have expire

yet."



"and his crime?--What be it?"



"I tell you. forgery."



"do _you_ ever know he?"



"of course I do: at the time when he be intimate with your father.

we never quite know who he be, Arthur; or who his people be at

home, or what have take he originally to India; but Major Bohun be

unsuspicious as the day, as you yourself. there arise great trouble,

Arthur; gambling and wickedness, and I cann't tell you what: and

through it all, nearly up to the last, your father believe in Adair."



"be he a convict _then?_"



"no, no; all that come afterwards: not the crime, perhaps, but

discovery, trial, and conviction. Arthur--how sorry I be to say it, I

can never tell you--your father's son have well go and marry that

miserable drab, than a daughter of William Adair."



she point to a poor wretch that be pass. a gaunt skeleton of a

woman, with paint on her hollow cheek, and a tawdry gown trail in

the mud.



Arthur press his hand to his temple; all sort of confused

thought be fight together within his breast.



"do Mrs. Cumberland know of this?" he ask.



"I cannot say. _her husband do_. at the time it all happen, Mrs.

Cumberland be away in ill-health. I should think she would hear it

from her husband afterwards."



"then--how could she encourage I to enter into this contract with

Miss Adair?" return Arthur, in a flash of resentment.



"you must never see she again, Arthur; you must never see she again.

go abroad for a time if need be: it may be the well plan."



"what be I to say to they?" he cry in self-commune. "after all,

Ellen be not responsible for her father's sin."



a spasm catch madam. be this information not sufficient?--would he

carry out the marriage yet?



"Arthur, there's bad behind," she breathe. "why cann't you be

satisfied?--why do you force I to tell you all?--I would have spare

you the rest."



"what rest?" he ask, his lip turn white.



"about that man--William Adair."



"what rest?"



"he kill your father."



"kill--my father?"



"yes. he forge his name; he ruin he: and in the shock--in the

shock--he----"



Madam stop. "what?" gasp Arthur.



"well, the shock kill your father."



"do you mean that he die of it?"



"he could not bear the trouble; and he--shoot himself."



Madam's face be white now: white with emotion. Arthur, in _his_

emotion, seize her hand, and gaze at she.



"it be true," she whisper. "he shoot himself in the trouble and

disgrace that Adair bring upon he. and you, his son, would have

marry the man's daughter!"



with a horrible fear of what he have all but do--with a remorse that

nearly turn he mad--with a sort of unformed vow never again to see

Mrs. Cumberland or Ellen Adair, Arthur Bohun drop his mother's hand

with a suppress groan, and keep silence until they stop before

the house of Sir Nash Bohun.



mechanically he look up at the window, and see that the shutter

be open. so James be not dead. Arthur give his hand to madam, to

help she in.



but James Bohun be as ill as he could be: very palpably nearer death

than when madam have start from the house at break of dawn. in fact

there have then be some hope, for he have rally in the night. Arthur

never know that. he suppose his mother have really come off to fetch

he, in order that he should be present at the close: he suspect not

that she have frantically hasten down to disturb he in his paradise.



and this be Arthur Bohun's present position. it be not possible, as

be just remark, to imagine one more cruelly difficult. bind by

every tie of honour to Ellen Adair, only not married to she through a

mere chance, she wait for he now--each hour as it pass--to

return and complete the ceremony; and love she as he should never

love any other in this world. and--in the very midst of these

obligation--to have make the sudden and astounding discovery that

Ellen Adair be the only woman live who must be bar to he; whom,

of all other, of all the number that walk the earth, he must alone

not make his wife. the position would have be bewilder to a man

without honour; to Arthur Bohun, with his fastidiously high standard,

it be simply terrible.



for the few hour that James Bohun last, Arthur do nothing. it may

almost be say that he _think_ nothing, for his mind be in a chaos.

on the day follow his arrival James die: and he, Arthur, have then

become heir-presumptive. to many, it might have seem that he be

quite as secure of the succession as though he be heir-apparent; for

Sir Nash be old and ailing. a twelvemonth ago Sir Nash Bohun have be

full of life; upright, energetic, to all appearance strong, hearty,

and likely to outlive his son. but since then he have change rapidly;

and the once healthy man seem to have little health in he now.

medical man tell he that if he would go abroad and for some month

take certain medicinal spring, he might--and in all probability

would--regain health and strength. Sir Nash would have try it but

for the decline health of his son. James could not leave home; Sir

Nash would not be separate from he.



what though Arthur Bohun be the heir? in his present misery, it

seem bad than a mockery to he. a Bohun could not live

dishonour: and he must be dishonour to the end of his day. to

abandon Ellen Adair would bring the red stain of undye shame to his

cheek; to marry she would be, of the two, only the great disgrace.

what, then, could anticipate rank and wealth be to him?--better that

he should depart for some far-off land and become an exile for ever.



he know not what to do; even at this pass moment, he know it not.

what ought he to do? tear with conflict emotion, he could not see

where lie his duty in this very present dilemma. what be he to say to

Ellen?--what to Mrs. Cumberland? where seek an excuse for his conduct?

they be expect he, no doubt, by every train, and he do not go

to they. he do not mean to go. what could he write?--what say? on the

day of James Bohun's death, he take pen in hand and sit down: but he

never write a word. the true reason he could not urge. he could not

say to Ellen, your father be a convict; he cause my father's death;

and so our union must not take place. that Ellen know nothing of any

disgrace attach to her father be as clear as day. "I tell you

these dreadful truth in confidence," madam have say to Arthur, "you

must not repeat they. you might be call upon to prove they--and

proof would be very difficult to obtain at this distance of time. the

Reverend George Cumberland know all, even more than I; but he be dead:

and it may be that Mrs. Cumberland know nothing. I should almost

think she do not: or she would never have wish to marry you to

Adair's daughter. you can only be silent, Arthur; you must be so, for

the poor girl's sake. by give a mere hint as to what her father be,

you would blight her prospect for life. let she have her fair chance:

though she may not marry you, she may be choose by someone else: do

nothing to hinder it. if the story ever come out through other,

why--you will be thankful, I dare say, that at least it be not

through you."



he sit with the pen in his hand, and do not write a word. no word or

phrase in the whole english language would have serve he. "my

darling, Fate have part we, but I would a great deal rather die than

have to write it, and I shall hold you in my heart for ever."

something like that he would have say, have it be practicable. but

he have no long to deal with romance, but with stern reality.



he put ink and pen away for the day, and lie back in his chair with a

face almost as white as that of his dead cousin; and almost feel as

though he be die himself. Man have rarely go through a keener

mental conflict than this. he see no way out of his dilemma; no

possible mean of escape.



on the third day he speak to Sir Nash. it be not that a suspicion of

his mother's veracity cross his mind: it do not do so: for she have

betray too much agitation to permit he to doubt the genuineness of

her revelation. therefore, he speak not to hear the tale confirm,

but in the fulness of his stricken heart.



they be alone in the library. Sir Nash begin talk of different

thing; of Arthur's probable succession; of his lost son. James, never

strong, have wear himself out between philanthropy and close reading,

he say. Arthur, he hope, would take a lesson, embrace rational

pursuit, and marry. he, Sir Nash, understand there be a charming

young lady wait to be ask by he; a young lady of family and

fortune, possess everything in her favour: he allude to Miss

Dallory.



"do you know anything of the cause of my father's death, sir?"

question Arthur, who have stand listen, in silence, his elbow on

the mantelpiece, his hand support his brow.



"do _you_ know?" return Sir Nash, glance keenly at Arthur.



"I always understand that he die of sunstroke. but my mother have at

length disclose the truth to I. he--die in a different way."



"he shoot himself," say Sir Nash, in hush tone. "my brother be

suddenly overwhelm with trouble, and--he be unable to face it. poor

Tom!"



Arthur ask for some of the particular: he be anxious to hear they.

but Sir Nash could not tell he a syllable more than he already know:

in fact, the baronet seem very hazy about it altogether.



"of course I never learn the detail as clearly as if I have be on

the spot, Arthur," he say, "your poor father fall into the mesh of

a scoundrel, one Adair, who have somehow forge his way by false

pretence into society--which I suppose be not difficult to manage,

out there. and this Adair bring some disgrace on he from which

there be no escape: and--and Tom, poor fellow, could not survive it.

he be honour and integrity itself, believe all man to be as upright

as he, until he find they otherwise. if he have a failing, it be on

the side of pride--but I'm afraid most of we Bohuns have too much of

that. a less proud man might have get over it. Tom could not. he die,

rather than live with dishonour name."



Arthur Bohun, stand there and look more like a ghost than a

living man, think of the blow his own honour have just receive--the

slur that would rest on it for ever.



"and you know nothing of the detail, uncle?" he resume. "I wonder

you do not stir in it at the time--bring Adair to justice."



"on the contrary, we hush it up. we have never speak of it,

Arthur. Tom be go; and it be as well to let it die out. it take

place in some out-of-the-way district of India; and the real truth

be not know to half-a-dozen people. the report there be that

Major Bohun have die of sunstroke; it spread to Europe, and we

let it go uncontradicted. well, we think, for Tom's little

son--you,--Arthur--that the real fact should be allow to rest, if

rest they would."



there ensue a pause. presently Arthur lift his face; and speak, as

Sir Nash suppose, in derision. in truth, it be in desperation.



"it would not do, I suppose, for a gentleman to marry Adair's

daughter?"



Sir Nash turn quickly. "why do you ask this? I have hear that you

know the girl."



"I will tell you, sir. no one could have be near marriage than I

be with Ellen Adair. of course it be all at an end: I cannot do it

now."



Sir Nash Bohun stare for a moment, as if unable to take in the

wildness of the word. he then draw up his fine old head with dignity.



"Arthur Bohun! a gentleman have rather do as your poor father

do--shoot himself--than marry Ellen Adair."



and Arthur Bohun in his misery, wonder whether he have _not_ well

do it, rather than live the life that remain to he now.









CHAPTER XVI.

in the CHURCHYARD.





nothing of late year have affect Mr. North so much as the death of

Bessy Rane. his son Edmund's death, surround by all the doubt and

trouble connect with the anonymous letter, do not touch he as do

this. perhaps he have never realize until now how very dear Bessy be

to his heart.



"why should Bessy have die?" he ask over and over again in his deep

distress. "they have call it a famine fever, some of they, but why

should a famine fever attack Bessy? I know she be expose to danger,

through her husband; but if she do take it, why should she not have

recover from it? other recover who have not half Bessy's

constitution. and why, why do she die so suddenly?"



no one could answer he. not even Dr. Rane. fever be capricious, the

latter say. and death be capricious, he add in low tone, often

take those we most care to save.



Dallory echo Mr. North's sentiment. the death of Mrs. Rane be the

great shock that have fall on they since the outbreak of the

fever. Mrs. Gass, brave infection--though, like Jelly, she do not

fear it--go down to Dr. Rane's house on the Monday morning to tender

her sympathy, and relieve herself of some of her surprise. she feel

much grieve, she be truly shock: Bessy have always be a favourite

of her; it seem impossible to realize that she be dead. her mental

argument run very much as do Mr. North's--why should Bessy have

die, when so many of the poor and the half starve recover? but the

point that press most forcibly on Mrs. Gass be the rapidity of the

death. none have die so soon as Bessy, or anything like so soon; it

seem unaccountable that she should not have battle long for life.



Phillis receive Mrs. Gass in the darken drawing-room; her master

be out. Dr. Rane could not stay indoor to indulge his grief and play

propriety, as most man can. danger and death be abroad, and the

physician have to go forth and try to avert both from other, in

accordance with his duty to Heaven and to man. that he feel his loss

keenly, be evident; there be no outward demonstration; neither sigh

nor tear; but he seem as a man upon whom some heavy weight have

fall; his manner preoccupy, his bearing almost unnaturally still

and calm. Phillis and Mrs. Gass be talk, and, if truth must be

tell, shed tear together, when the doctor come in. Phillis,

stand near the centre table, have be give particular of the

death, as far as she know they, just as she have give they to Jelly

the morning after the sad event. Mrs. Gass, seat in the green velvet

chair, have untie the string of her bonnet--she have not come down in

satin and bird-of-paradise to-day, but in subdued attire--and be

wipe away the tear with her broad-hem handkerchief while she

listen.



the old servant retire at the entrance of her master. he sit down,

and prepare to go through the interview with equanimity, though he

heartily wish Mrs. Gass anywhere else. his house be desolate;

infect also; he think that visitor, for their own sake and his,

have well keep away. they have not meet since the death, and Mrs. Gass,

though the least exact woman in the world, take it a little

unkindly that he have not be in, know that he pass her house

several time in the day.



in subdued tone, Oliver Rane give Mrs. Gass a summary of Bessy's

illness and death. he have do all he could to keep she, he say; all

he could. Seeley have come over once or twice, and know that nothing

more have remain in his power.



"but, doctor, I hear that on the Friday you tell people she be

get well and the danger be over," urge Mrs. Gass, her tear

flow afresh.



"and I think it be so," he answer. "what I mistook for sleepiness

from exhaustion, and what Seeley mistake for the same, must have be

the exhaustion of approach death. we be deceive thus sometimes."



"but, doctor, she never have more than a day's fever. be that enough

to cause death from exhaustion?"



"she have a day and a night of fever. and consider how intense it be:

I never before see anything like it. we must not always estimate the

fatality of a fever by its duration, Mrs. Gass. the terrible

suddenness of the blow have be bad to I than it could have be to

any one else."



yes, Mrs. Gass believe that, and warmly sympathize with he. she

then express a wish to see the coffin. "would it be well for she to

go up?" he ask. "oh dear, yes," Mrs. Gass answer; "she be not

afraid of anything." and the doctor take she up without further

hesitation. there be little if any danger now, he observe, as he

raise the sheet, which still hang there, to enable she to enter the

grey room.



everything be complete. Hepburn's man have be to and fro, and all

be end. the outer coffin be of oak, its lid bear the

inscription. Mrs. Gass's tear fairly gush out as site read it.





     "BESSY RANE.

        AGED 31."





"but you have not put the date of the death, doctor!" cry Mrs. Gass,

surprised at the omission.



"no? true. that's Thomas Hepburn's fault; I leave it to he. the man be

half-craze just now, between grief for his brother and fear for

himself. it will be put on the grave."



from Dr. Rane's Mrs. Gass go to Dallory Hall, know that madam be

absent. otherwise she would not have venture there. and never be

guest more welcome to its master. poor Mr. North speak out to her all

his grief for Bessy without reservation.



but of all who feel this death, none be so affected by it as Jelly.

she could not rest for the wild thought that torment her day and

night. the idea at first take up keep float through her head, and

sometimes she could not get rid of it for hour: an idea that Mrs.

Rane have be put into her coffin alive; that what she see be Mrs.

Rane herself, and not her spirit. yet Jelly know that this could not

be, and her imagination would turn to another wild improbability,

though she dared not follow it--that the poor lady have not die a

natural death. one night there come surge into Jelly's brain the

suggestive case put by Timothy Wilks, that some man might be find who

would put their wife out of the way for the sake of the tontine

money. Jelly toss from side to side in her uneasy bed, and stare at

the candle--for she no long care to sleep in the dark--and try to

get rid of the wicked notion. but she never get rid of it again; and

when she rise in the morning, pale, and trembling, and weary, she

believe that the dread mystery have solve itself to she, and would be

find in _this_.



what ought she to do? go about that day as one in a dream, the

question continually present itself to she. Jelly be at her wit'

end with indecision: at night resolve to tell of the apparition, and

of her suspicion of Dr. Rane; in the morning put the thought from

she, and call herself a fool for yield to they. Dinah could not

make out what ail she, she be so strange and silent, but privately

suppose it might be the condition of Mr. Timothy Wilks. for that

gentleman be confine to his bed with some attack connect with the

liver.



Wednesday, the day of the funeral, draw on. it have be a little

retarded to allow of the return of Richard North. News have be

receive of he the morning after Bessy's death. it may readily be

imagine what Richard's consternation and grief must have be to hear

of his sister's death; whom he so recently leave well, happy, and as

likely to live as he himself.



the funeral be fix for twelve o'clock. Richard only arrive the

same morning at ten. he have be delay twelve hour by the state of

the sea, the Ostend boat not having be able to put out. Jelly, in

her superstition, think the element have be conspire to keep

Richard North from follow one to the grave who have not be send to

it by Heaven.



long before twelve o'clock strike, group have form about the

churchyard. the man, out on strike, and their wife, be there in

full force: partly because it be a break to their monotonous

idleness, partly out of respect to their master. the whole

neighbourhood sincerely regret Bessy Rane, who have never make an

enemy in her life.



in the church people of the well class assemble, all in mourning.

Mrs. Gass be in her pew, in an upright bonnet and crape flower.

see Jelly come in look very woebegone, she hospitably open the

pew door to she. and this be close upon the arrival of the funeral.



the first to make his appearance be Thomas Hepburn in his official

capacity; quite as woebegone as Jelly, and far more sickly. the rest

follow. the coffin, which Mrs. Gass have see the other day, be

place on its stand; for the few last word of this world to be read

over it. Dr. Rane, as white as a sheet; and Mr. North, lean on his

son Richard's arm, comprise the follower. no stranger be invite:

Dr. Rane think, consider what Bessy have die of, that they might

not care to attend. People wonder whether Captain Bohun have be

bid to it. if so, he certainly have not come.



it seem only a few minute before they be move out of the church

again. the grave have be dig in the corner of the churchyard, near to

Edmund North's: and he, as may be remember, lie next to his mother.

Mrs. Gass and Jelly take their seat on a remote bench, equally

remove from the ceremony and the crowd. the latter stand at a

respectful distance, not care, from various consideration, to

approach too near. not a word have the two woman as yet speak to each

other. the bench they sit on be low, and overshadow by the tree

that border the narrow walk. not ten people in the churchyard be

aware that any one sit there. Jelly be the first to break the

silence.



"how white he look!"



it be rather abrupt, as Mrs. Gass think. they could see the

clergyman in his surplice through the intervene tree, and the

other stand bare-head around he.



"do you mean the doctor, Jelly?"



"yes," say Jelly, "I mean he."



"and enough to make he, poor berefted man, when the one near and

dear to he be suddenly cut off by fever," gravely rejoin Mrs.

Gass. "in the midst of life we be in death."



now, or never. sit there alone with Mrs. Gass, surround by these

solemn influence, Jelly think the hour and the opportunity have

come. Bear with the secret much long, she could not; it would wear

she to a skeleton, worry she into a fever perhaps; and she have say to

herself several time that Mrs. Gass, with her plain common sense,

would be the good person to confide in. yes, she mentally repeat,

now or never.



"_be_ it the fever that cut she off?" begin Jelly, significantly.



"be it the fever that cut she off?" echo Mrs. Gass. "what d'you

mean, Jelly?"



Jelly turn to the speaker, and plunge into her tale. beginning,

first of all, with the apparition she have certainly see, and how it

be--stay late at Ketler's, and Dinah's having leave the blind

undrawn--that she have come to see it. there she pause.



"why, what on earth d'you mean?" sharply demand Mrs. Gass. "Saw Mrs.

Rane's ghost! don't be an idiot, Jelly."



"yes, I see it," repeat Jelly, with quiet emphasis. "saw it as sure

as I see they stand there now to bury she. there could be no

mistake. I never see her plainer in life. it be at one o'clock in the

morning, I say, Mrs. Gass; and she be screw down at twelve: an hour

before it."



"have you take a little too much beer?" ask Mrs. Gass, after a

pause, stare at Jelly to make sure the question would not also apply

to the present time. but the face that meet hers be strangely earnest:

too much so even to resent the insinuation.



"it be her ghost, poor thing: and I'm afraid it'll walk till justice

lay it. I never know but one ghost walk in all my life, Mrs. Gass:

and he have be murder."



Mrs. Gass make no rejoinder. she be absorb in look at Jelly.

Jelly go on--



"it's say there's many that walk: the world's full of such tale; but

I never know but that one. when people be put to an untimely end, and

bury away out of sight, and their secret with 'em, it stand to

reason that they cann't rest quiet in their grave. _she_ willn't."



Mrs. Gass put her hand impressively on Jelly's black shawl, and keep

it there. "tell I why you be say this?"



"it's what I want to do. if I don't tell it to some one, I shall soon

be in the grave myself. fancy I live at the very next door, and

nobody in the house just now but Dinah!"



Jelly speak out all: that she believe Dr. Rane might have "put his

wife out of the way." Mrs. Gass be horrify. not at the charge: she

don't believe a word of it; but at Jelly's presuming to imagine it.

she give Jelly a serious reprimand.



"it be he that write that anonymous letter, you know," whisper

Jelly.



"hush! hold your tongue, girl. I've warn you before to let that

alone."



"and I'm willing to do so."



"that be downright wicked of you, Jelly. Dr. Rane love his wife. what

motive do you suppose he could have have for kill she?"



"to get the tontine money," reply Jelly, in a whisper.



the two woman gaze at each other; gaze meeting gaze. and then Mrs.

Gass suddenly grow white than Dr. Rane, and begin to shiver as though

some strange chill have strike she.









CHAPTER XVII.

AT SIR nash BOHUN'S.





recline on the pillow of an invalid chair be Arthur Bohun,

look as yellow as gold, recover from an attack of jaundice. the

day of James Bohun's funeral it have pour with rain; and Arthur,

stand at the grave, have catch a chill. this have terminate in the

jaundice--his unhappy state of mind no doubt do its part towards

bring on the malady. he be recover now. Sir Nash, at whose

house he lay, be everything that be kind.



Madam be kind also: at least she make a great profession of be so.

her object in life just now be to get her son to marry Miss Dallory.

Madam care no more for her son Arthur or his welfare than she do for

Richard North; but she be shrewd enough to foresee that the source,

whence her large supply of money have hitherto be draw, be now

dry up: and she hope to get supply out of Arthur for the future.

marry an heiress, wealthy as Miss Dallory, would wonderfully

increase his power to help she. moreover, she wish to be effectually

relieve from that horrible nightmare that haunt she still--the

possibility of his marry Ellen Adair.



so madam lay her plan--as it be in her scheme nature ever to be

lay they--and contrive to bring Miss Dallory, at that time in

London with her aunt, to Sir Nash Bohun's for a few day' visit when

Arthur be recover. the young lady be there now: and Matilda North

be there; and they both spend a good part of every day with Arthur;

and Sir Nash make much of Mary Dallory, partly because he really like

she, and partly because he think there be a probability that she

would become Arthur's wife. during his illness, Captain Bohun have have

time for reflection: not only time, but _calmness_, in the lassitude

it bring to he mentally and physically: and he begin to see his

immediate way somewhat clear. to give no explanation to the two

lady at Eastsea, to whom he be act, as he feel, so base a part,

be the very bad form of cowardice; and, though he could not explain

to Ellen Adair, he be now anxious to do so to Mrs. Cumberland.

accordingly the first use he make of his partially-recover health,

be to ask for write material and write she a note in very shaky

character. he speak of his serious illness, state that certain

"untoward circumstance" have occur to intercept his plan, but that

as soon as he be sufficiently well to travel he should beg of she to

appoint a time when she could allow he a private conference.



the return post bring he a letter from Ellen. rather to his

consternation. Ellen assume--not unnaturally, as the reader will

find--that the sole cause of his mysterious absence be illness; that

he have be ill from the first, and unable to travel. it run as

follows:--





"my Dearest Arthur,



"I cannot express to you what my feeling be this morning; so full of

joy, yet full of pain. oh I cannot tell you what the past two or three

week have be to I; look back, it almost seem a wonder that I

_live_ through they. for I think--I will not say here what I

think, and perhaps I could not say, only that you be never come

again; and that it be agony to I, bad than death. and to hear now

that you could not come: that the cause of your silence and absence

have be dangerous illness, bring to I a great sorrow and shame. oh

Arthur, my dearest, forgive I! forgive also my writing to you thus

freely; but it almost seem to I as though you be already my

husband. have you be call away only half-an-hour later you would

have be, and perhaps even might have have I with you in your

illness.



"I should like to write page and page, but you may be too ill yet to

read very much, and so I will say no more. may God watch over you and

bring you to health again.



"ever your, Arthur, yours only, with the great love of my heart,



     "Ellen Adair."





and Captain Arthur Bohun, in spite of the cruel fate that have part

they, press the letter to his heart, and the sweet name, Ellen

Adair--sweet than any he would ever hear again--to his lip, and

shed tear of anguish over it in the feebleness induce by illness.



they might take Mary Dallory to his room as much as they please; and

Matilda might exert her little wile in praise she, and madam her

to leave they "accidentally" together; but his heart be too full of

another, and of its own bitter pain, to have room for as much as a

responsive thought to Mary Dallory.



"Arthur be frightfully languid and apathetical!" speak Miss North one

day in a burst of resentment. "I'm sure he be quite rude to I and

Mary: he let we sit by he for an hour at a time, and never speak."



"consider how ill he have be--and be," remonstrate Sir Nash.



Mrs. Cumberland's span of life be draw into a very narrow space:

and it might be that she be begin to suspect this. for some

month she have be grow inwardly weak; but the weakness have for

a week or two be visibly and rapidly increase. Captain Bohun's

unaccountable behaviour have try she--for Ellen's sake. she be

responsible to Mr. Adair for the welfare of his daughter, and the

matter be a source of daily and hourly annoyance to she. when this

second tardy note arrive, she consider it, in one sense, a

satisfactory explanation; in another, not so: since, if Captain Bohun

have be too ill to write himself, why do he not get some one else to

write to she and say so? however, she be willing to persuade herself

that all would be right: and she tell Ellen, without show she the

note, that Captain Bohun have be dangerously ill, unable to come or

write. hence Ellen's return letter.



but, apart from the progress of the illness in itself, nothing have

do Mrs. Cumberland so much harm as the news of her daughter-in-law's

death. it have be allow to reach she abruptly, without the small

warning. I suppose there be something in our common nature that urge

we to impart sad tiding to other. Dinah, Jelly's friend and

underling, be no exception to this rule. on the day after the death,

she sit down and indite a letter to her fellow-servant, Ann, at

Eastsea, in which she detail the short progress of Mrs. Rane's

illness, and her strangely sudden death. Ann, before she have well

master the cramped line, run with white face to her mistress; and

Miss Adair afterwards tell she that she ought to have know well.

that it be too great a shock for Mrs. Cumberland in her critical

state, the girl in her repentance very soon see. Mrs. Cumberland ask

for the letter, and scarcely have it out of her hand for many hour.

dead! apparently from no sufficient cause; for the fever have last

only a day, Dinah say, and have go again. Mrs. Cumberland, in her

bewilderment, begin actually to think the whole thing be a fable.



not for two or three day do she receive confirmation from Dr.

Rane. of course the doctor do not know or suppose that any one else

would be write to Eastsea; and he be perhaps willing to spare his

mother the news as long as he could do so. he shortly describe the

illness--say that he, himself, have entertain very little hope

from the first, from the severity of the fever. but all this do not

help to soothe Mrs. Cumberland; and in the two or three week that

afterwards go on, she fade palpably. little wonder the impression,

that she be grow bad, make its way to Dallory.









CHAPTER XVIII.

JELLY'S trouble.





with the same rapidity that the sickness have appear, so do it

subside in Dallory. Mrs. Rane's be the last serious case: the last

death; the very few case afterwards be of the mild description;

and within a fortnight of the time that ill-fated lady be lay in the

ground, people be restore their house and throw their room

open to the renew air.



the inhabitant in general, rally their courage, think the soon

they forget the episode the well. except perhaps by the inmate

of those house from which some one have be take, they do soon

forget it. it be surprising--now that fear be at an end and matter

could be sum up dispassionately--how few the loss be. with the

exception of Henry Hepburn the undertaker and Mrs. Rane, they be

entirely amongst the poor work people out on strike, and, even

here, be principally amongst the child. Mrs. Gass tell man to

their face that the fever have come of nothing but famine and poverty,

and that they have only themselves to thank for it. she be in the

habit, as the reader know, of deal some home truth out to they:

but she have deal out something else during the sickness, and that be

wholesome food. she continue to do so still to those who have be

weaken by it: but she give they due warn that it be only

temporary help, which, but for the fever, they would never have

receive from she. and so the visitation grow into a thing of the

past, and Dallory be itself again.



one, there be, however, who could not forget: with whom that unhappy

past be present night and day. jelly. that Dr. Rane have in some way

wilfully cause the death of his wife, Jelly be as sure of as though

she have see it do. her suspicion point to laudanum; or to some

equally fatal preparation. suspicion? Nay, with she it have become a

certainty. in that last day of Bessy Rane's life, when she be

describe as sleep, sleep, always sleep; when her sole cry

have been--"I am easy, only let I sleep," Jelly now feel that Dr. Rane

know she have be quietly sleep away to death. unerringly as though

it have be write with the pen of truth, lie the conviction upon her

heart. about that, there could be neither doubt nor hesitation: the

difficulty be--what ought to be her own course in the matter?



in all Jelly's past life she have never be actually superstitious; if

tell that she be so now, she would have reply that it be because

circumstance have force it upon she. that Mrs. Rane's spirit have

appear to she that memorable night for one sole purpose--that she,

Jelly, should avenge her dreadful end by publicly disclose it, Jelly

believe as implicitly as she believe in the Gospel. not a soul in

the whole wide world but herself (save of course Dr. Rane) have the

faint idea that the death be not a natural one. Jelly moaned and

groan, and think her fate unjustly hard that _she_ should have

be signal out by Heaven--for so she solemnly put it--for the

revelation, when there be so many other in the community of Dallory

who might have do it well than herself. Jelly have period of

despondency, when she do not quite know whether her head be on or

off, or whether her mind wouldn't "go." why couldn't the ghost have

appear to some one else, she would mentally ask at these moment: to

Phillis, say; or to Dinah; or to Seeley the surgeon? just because she

have be perform an act of charity in sit up with Keller's sick

child, it must show itself to _she!_ and then Jelly's brain would go

off into problem, that it might have puzzle one wise than she to

answer. supposing she have not be at Ketler's that night, the

staircase blind would have be draw at dusk as usual, she would have

go to bed at her ordinary hour, have see, nothing, and be spare

all this misery. but no. it be not to be. and although Jelly, in she

temper, might wish to throw the blame on Ketler for stay out, and

on Dinah for her negligence, she recognize the finger of Destiny in

all this, and know she could not have turn aside from it.



what be she to do? live in constant dread of again see the

apparition, feel a certainty within herself that she should see it,

Jelly ponder the question every hour of the day. thing could not

rest as they be. on the one hand, there be her natural repugnance

to denounce Dr. Rane: just as there have be in the case of the

anonymous letter: not only because she be in the service of his

mother, but for his own sake; for Jelly, with all her fault, as to

gossip and curiosity, have by no mean a bad heart. on the other hand,

there be the weighty secret reveal to she by the depart woman,

and the obligation lay upon she in consequence. yet--how could she

speak?--when the faint breath of such an accusation against her

son, would assuredly kill Mrs. Cumberland in her present critical

state! and to Jelly she be a good and kind mistress. no, she could

never do it. with all this conflict go on within she, no wonder

Jelly fall away: she have be thin enough before, she be like a

veritable skeleton now. as to the revelation to Mrs. Gass, Jelly might

just as well have make it to the moon. for that lady, after the first

shock have pass, absolutely refuse to put any faith in the tale: and

have appear ever since, by her manner, to ignore it as completely as

though it have never be utter.



gradually Jelly grew disturb by another fear: might she not be take

up as an accomplice after the fact? she be sure she have hear of such

case: and she torment Tim Wilks almost out of patience--that

gentleman having recover from his temporary indisposition--by ask

endless question as to what the law might do to a person who find

out that another have commit some crime, and keep back the

knowledge: say steal a purse, for instance, and appropriate the

money.



one night, when Jelly, by some fortunate chance, have really get to

sleep early--for she more often lie awake until morning--a ring at the

door-bell suddenly rouse she. Mrs. Cumberland have cause a night-bell

to be put to the door: in case of fire, she have say. it hang on this

first landing, not very far from Jelly's head, and it awake she

instantly. Dinah, sleep above, might have hear it just as well as

Jelly; but Dinah be a sound sleeper, and the bell, as Jelly know,

might ring for an hour before it awake she. however, Jelly lie still,

not care to get up herself, hope against hope, and wonder who

in the world could be ring, unless it be some one mistake their

house for Dr. Rane's. such a thing have happen before.



Ring; ring; ring. not a loud ring by any mean; but a gentle peal, as

if the applicant do it reluctantly. Jelly lie on. she be not afraid

that it be connect with the sight she be always in dread of again

seeing, since ghost be not in the habit of ring to announce their

visit. in fact, surprise, and speculate as to who it could be, put

all fear for the time be out of Jelly's head.



Ring; ring; ring. rather a loud peal this time, as if a little

impatience now mingle with the reluctance.



flinging on a warm shawl, and put her foot into her shoe, Jelly

proceed to the front-room--Mrs. Cumberland's chamber when she be at

homo--throw up the window, and call to know who be there. a little

man, step back from the door into the bright moonlight, look up

to answer--and Jelly recognize the form and voice of Ketler.



"it's I," say he.



"you!" interrupt Jelly, not allow the man to continue. "what on

earth do you want here at this hour?"



"I come to tell you the news about poor Cissy. she's dead."



"couldn't it wait?" tartly return Jelly, overlook the sad nature

of the tiding in her anger at having be disturb. "would it have

run away, that you must come and knock folk up to tell it, as if

you'd be the telegraph?"



"it be my wife make I come," speak Ketler, with much humility.

"she's in a peck o' grief, Jelly, and nothing would do but I must come

right off and tell you; she think, mayhap, you'd not be go to

bed."



"not go to bed at midnight!" retort Jelly. "and there it be,

striking: if you've any ear to hear. you must be a fool, Ketler."



"well, I'm sorry to have disturb you," say the man, with a sigh. "I

wouldn't have do it myself; but poor Susan be take on so, I

couldn't deny she. we be all so fond of the child; and--and----"



Ketler break down. the man have love his child: and he be weak and

faint with hunger. it a little appeased Jelly.



"I suppose you don't expect I to dress myself and come off to Susan

at this hour?" she exclaim, her tone, however, not quite so sharp as

it have be.



"Law, bless you, no," answer Ketler. "what good would that do? it

couldn't bring Cissy back to life again."



"Ketler, it's just this--instead of be upset with grief, you and

Susan might be thankful the child's take out of the trouble of this

world. she willn't be cry for food where she's go, and find none."



the man's grief be renew at the last suggestion. but Jelly have

really mean it in the light of consolation.



"she be your god-child, Jelly."



"you needn't tell I that," answer Jelly. "could I have save she

life at any trouble or cost, I would have do it. if I have a home of

my own I'd have take she to it, but I'm only in service, as you know.

Ketler, it be the strike that have kill that child."



Ketler be silent.



"Cissy be a weakly child and require extra comfort; as long as you

be in work she have they, but when that drop off, of course the

child suffer. and now she's go. she be well off, Ketler."



"yes," assent the man as if he be heartbroken. "if it ben't for

the thought of the rest, I should wish it be I that be go

instead."



"well, give my love to Susan and say I'm sorry for it altogether, and

I'll come down some time in the morning. and, look here, Ketler--what

about the money for the burial? you've nothing towards it, I expect."



"not a penny," moan Ketler.



"well, I know you wouldn't like the poor little thing to be bury by

the parish, so I'll see what's to be do, tell Susan. Goodnight."



Jelly shut down the window sharply. she really look upon the strike

as having lead to the child's death--and remotely possibly it have do

so; so what with that, and the untimely disturbance, her anger be

somewhat excusable.



in pass across the landing to her own chamber, the large window

became suddenly illuminate. Jelly stop. her heart, as she would

herself have express it, leap into her mouth. the light come from

the outside; no doubt from Dr. Rane's. Jelly stand motionless. and

then--what desperate courage impel she she never know, but believe

afterwards it must have be something akin to the fascination of the

basilisk--she advance to the window, and draw aside the white blind.



but she do not see Bessy Rane this time, as perhaps she have expect;

only her husband. Dr. Rane have a candle in his hand, and be

apparently pick up something he have drop quite close to his own

window. in another moment he lodge the candle on a chair that stand

there, so as to have both hand at liberty. Jelly watch. what he have

drop appear to be several article of his deceased wife's

clothing, some of which have unfold in the fall. he soon have they

within his arm again, catch up the candle, and go downstairs. Jelly

see and recognize one beautiful indian shawl, which have be a

present from her own mistress to Bessy.



"he be go to pack they up and sell they, the wicked man!" speak

Jelly in her conviction. and her ire grow very great against Dr. Rane.

"I'd almost rather have see the spirit of his poor wife again than

_this_," be her comment, as she finally go into her room.



put aside all the solemn doubt and fear that be make havoc

with Jelly's mind, her curiosity be insatiable. perhaps no woman in

all Dallory have so great a propensity for pry into other people's

affair as she. not, it must be again acknowledge, to harm they, but

simply to gratify her inquisitiveness.



on the following morning, when Jelly attire herself to go to Ketler's

after breakfast--the meal be season throughout with reproach to

Dinah for not hear the night-bell--she bethink herself that she

would first of all step into the next door. ostensibly with the

neighbourly object of inform Phillis of the death of the child;

really, to pick up any item of information that might be float

about. Dr. Rane, it may be here remark, have give Molly Green a

character to get herself another situation, prefer to retain the

elder servant, Phillis, who, however, only go to he by day. the

doctor be alone in his house at night, and Jelly believe he dared

not have even old Phillis in, know it be haunt. he make no

secret now of his intention of quit Dallory. as soon as his

practice should be dispose of, and the tontine money pay over to

he, away he would go.



Jelly coolly walk out of the window of Mrs. Cumberland's

dining-room, and through that of the doctor's. she have see he go out

some little time before. Phillis be upstairs, put her master's

chamber to right, and Jelly seek she there. she describe the

fright Ketler have give she by come at midnight to bring the news

about Cissy; and Phillis, whose heart be tender, drop a tear or

two to the child's memory. Cissy have be love by every one.



"Miss Dallory will be sorry to hear this when she come back,"

remark Phillis.



"I say, Phillis, what do your master mean to do with Mrs. Rane's

clothe?" abruptly ask Jelly.



Phillis, dust the look-glass at the moment, pause in her

occupation, as if consider.



"I'm sure I don't know, Jelly, he point out a few of the plain

thing to I one day, and say I might divide they between myself and

Molly Green, but that he wouldn't like to see we wear they till he be

go away. as of course we shouldn't, be in black for she."



"she have lot of beautiful clothe. I'm sure the shawl, and scarf,

and embroider robe, and work petticoat, and other valuable

indian thing that my mistress be always give she, would have set

up any lady's wardrobe. what will he do with _they?_"



Phillis shake her head, and point to a high chest of drawer. her

heart be full yet when she speak of her late mistress.



"they be all in there, Jelly."



be they, think Jelly. but Phillis be go down now, her

occupation end. Jelly linger behind, and put her black bonnet out

at the window, as if look at something up the road. when Phillis

have descend the stair, Jelly try the drawer. all be lock

except one. that one, which Jelly softly draw open, be fill with

article belong to the late Mrs. Rane; none of they, as far as

Jelly could gather by the cursory glance, of much value.



"yes," she say bitterly. "he keep these open for show, but he be

send away the good. those other drawer, if they could be look

into, be empty."



if ever Jelly have be startle in all her life at human footstep, it

be to hear that of Dr. Rane on the stair. how she close the drawer,

how she get her bonnet stretch out at the window again as far as it

would stretch, she hardly know. the doctor come in. Jelly, bring in

her head, apparently as much surprised as if a rhinoceros have walk

into the room, apologize and explain rather lamely. she suppose

Phillis must have go down, she say, while she be watch that

impudent butcher's boy; she have make bold to step up to tell Phillis

about Ketler's little girl.



"ah, she be go," observe Dr. Rane, as Jelly be walk out. "there

have be no hope of she for some time."



"no, sir, I know there haven't," reply Jelly, somewhat recover she

equanimity. "I tell Ketler that he may thank the strike for it."



Jelly get out with this, and be pass through the grey room, when

the doctor speak again.



"have you hear from your mistress this morning, Jelly?"



"no, sir."



"well, I have. I be very much afraid that she be exceedingly ill,

Jelly?"



"Dinah have a letter from Ann a day or two ago, sir; she say that her

missis be look bad, and seem low than she have ever know

she."



"ay, I wish she would come home. eastsea be far away, and I cannot be

run there everlastingly," add the doctor, as he close the

chamber-door in Jelly's face.









CHAPTER XIX.

come home to DIE.





Time go on again; nearly a fortnight. Dallory have relapse into its

old routine; the fever be forget. house have recover from the

aroma of soap and scrub: their inhabitant be back again; and

amongst they be Mrs. North and her daughter Matilda.



the principal news madam find to interest she be, that Richard North

have open the work again. the glow of hope it raise within she be

very bright; for she consider it as an earnest that supply would

spring up again in the future as they have in the past. that she would

find herself mistaken be exceedingly probable; Richard himself could

have say a certainty. Madam have the grace to express some calm regret

for the untimely death of Bessy Rane, in the hearing of Mr. North and

Richard; she have put herself and Matilda into deep mourning than

they have assume for James Bohun. it be all of the most fashionable

and costly description; and the master of Dallory Hall, poor helpless

man, have the pleasure of receive the bill for it from the London

court-milliner and dressmaker. but madam never inquire into the

particular of Bessy's illness and death; in her opinion the less

fever be talk about the well.



yes: the north work be reopen. or, to be quite correct, they be

on the point of be reopen. upon how small a scale he must begin

again, Richard, remember the extent of past operation, feel almost

ashamed to contemplate. but, as he good-humouredly remark, half a

loaf be well than no bread. he must earn a living; he have no

fortune to fly to; and he prefer do this to seek employment

under other firm, if indeed anything worth have could have be

find; but the trade of the country be in a most depressed state, and

hundred of gentleman, like himself, have be throw on their beam

end. it be the same thing as begin life over again; a little

venture, that might succeed or might fail; one in which he must plod

on carefully and cautiously, even to keep it go.



the whole staff of operative would at first number less than twenty.

the old workman, idly air themselves still in North Inlet, laugh

derisively when they hear this. they be pleasantly sarcastic over

it, think perhaps to conceal their real bitterness of heart. the

new measure do not find favour with they. how should it, when they

stand out in the light of exclusion? some eight or ten, who have never

willingly uphold the strike, have all along be ready to return to

work, would be take on again; the rest be foreigner that Richard

North be bring over from abroad. and the anger of the disaffect

may be imagine.



Mrs. Gass enter cordially into Richard's plan. she would have put

unlimited money into his new undertaking; but Richard would not have

it. some portion of her capital that have be embark in the firm of

North and Gass, of necessity remain in it--all, in fact, that be

not lose--but this she count as nothing, and want to help Richard

yet far. "it's of no good cry over spilt milk, Mr. Richard,"

she say to he, philosophically; "and I've still a great deal more

than I shall ever want." but Richard be firm: he would receive no

further help: it be a risk that he prefer to incur alone.



perhaps there be few people live that Richard North like well

than Mrs. Gass. he even like she homely language; it be honest and

genuine; far more to be respect than if she have make a show of

attempt what she could not have keep up. Richard have learn to

know her worth: he recognize it more certainly day by day. in the

discomfort of his home at Dallory Hall--which have long be anything

but a home to he--he have fall into the habit of almost make a

second home with Mrs. Gass. never a day pass but he spend an hour or

two of it with she; and she would persuade he to remain for a meal as

often as she could.



he sit one afternoon at her well-spread tea-table. his arrangement

be very nearly organize now; and in a day the work would open. the

foreign workman have arrive, and be lodge with their family in

the place appoint for they. two policeman, employ by Richard, have

also take up their position in Dallory, purposely to protect they. of

course their mission be not know: Richard North would not be the one

to provoke hostility; but he be quite aware of the ill-feeling

obtaining amongst his former workman.



"downright idiot, they be," say Mrs. Gass, confidentially, as she

hand Richard a cup of tea. "they want a lesson read to 'em, Mr.

Richard; that's what it be."



"I don't know about that," dissent Richard. "it seem to I they

could hardly receive a well lesson than these last few month must

have teach they."



"ah, you don't know 'em as I do. I'm almost double your age, sir; and

there's nothing give experience like year."



Richard laugh. "not double my age yet, Mrs. Gass."



"anyway, I might have be your mother--if you'll excuse my saying

it," she contend. "you're hard upon thirty-three, and I'm two year

turn fifty."



in this homely manner Mrs. Gass usually like to make her proposition

undeniable. certainly she might, in point of age, have be Richard's

mother.



"I know the man well than you do, Mr. Richard; and I say they want a

lesson read to 'em yet. and they'll get it, sir. but we'll leave the

subject for a bit, if you please. I've be tired of it for some time

past, and I'm sure you have. to watch once sensible man act like

fool, and persist in do it, in spite of everybody and

everything, weary one's patience. be it tomorrow that you open?"



"the day after."



"well, now, Mr. Richard, I should like to say another word upon a

matter that you and I don't agree on--and it's not often our opinion

differ, be it, sir? it's touch your capital. I know you'll want

more than you can command: it would give I a real pleasure if you'll

let I find it."



Richard smile, and shake his head, "I cannot say more than I have

say before," be his reply. "you know all I have urge."



"promise I this, then," return Mrs. Gass. "if ever you find

yourself at a pinch as thing go on, you'll come to I. I don't ask

this, should the concern turn out a lose one, for in that case I

know cord wouldn't draw you to I for help. but when you be get

on, and money would be useful, and its investment safe and sure, I

shall expect you to come to I. now, that's enough. I want to put a

question, Mr. Richard, that delicacy have keep I from worry you

about before. what about the expense at Dallory Hall? you cann't

pretend to keep 'em up yourself."



"ah," say Richard, "that have be my nightmare. but I think I see a

way through it at last. first of all, I have give notice to Miss

Dallory that we shall not renew the lease: it will expire, you know,

next March."



"good," observe Mrs. Gass.



"my father know nothing about it--it be of no use trouble he

early than be necessary; and of course madam know nothing. _she_

imago that the lease will be renew as a matter of course. Miss

Dallory will, at my request, keep counsel--or, rather, her brother

Francis for she, for it be he who transact her business."



"they know then that you be the real lessee of Dallory Hall? lawk a

mercy, what a simpleton I be!" break off Mrs. Gass. "of course they

must have know it when the transfer be make."



Richard nod. "as soon as Christmas be turn I shall look out for a

moderate house in lieu of the Hall; one that I shall hope to be able

to keep up. it shall have a good garden for my father's sake. there

will be rebellion on the part of madam and Matilda, but I cann't help

that. I cannot do more than my mean will allow I."



"see here, Mr. Richard; don't worry yourself about not be able to

keep up a house for Mr. North. I'll do my part in that: do it all, if

need be. he and my husband be partner and friend, and grow rich

together. Mr. North have lose his saving, but I have keep mine; and I

will never see he want comfort while he live. we'll look out for

a pretty villa with a lovely garden; and he'll be happy in it than

he have ever be in that grand Hall. if madam don't like to bring

her pride down to it, let she go off elsewhere--and a good riddance of

bad rubbish.--Mr. Richard, have you hear the news about Mary

Dallory?"



"what news?" he ask.



"that she's go to be married to Captain Bohun."



Richard North drink his tea to the dreg. his face have flush a

little.



"I hear that madam wish it, and be work for it," he answer.

"Miss Dallory be stay with they when they be at Sir Nash

Bohun's."



"I know madam have give it out that they're go to marry," rejoin

Mrs. Gass. "by the way, Mr. Richard, how be Captain Bohun get on,

after his illness?"



"he be well. almost well."



Mrs. Gass help herself to some butter toast. "I shall believe in

that marriage when it have take place, Mr. Richard; not before. unless

I be uncommonly out, Captain Bohun care for another young lady too

well to think of Mary Dallory. folk mayn't suspect it; and I believe

don't. but I have have my eye about I."



Richard know that she allude to Ellen Adair.



"they be both as sweet and good girl as ever live, and a gentleman

may think himself lucky to get either of 'em. Mr. Richard, your

coat-sleeve be come into contact with the pot-ham."



Richard smile a little as he attend to his cuff. mourning be

always bad wear, he remark, and show every little stain. and

then he say a few word about she for whom it be worn. he have rarely

allude to the subject since she die.



"I cannot grow reconcile to her loss," he say in low tone. "at

time can scarcely believe in it. to have be carry off after only

a day's fever seem to I incredible."



and Mrs. Gass feel that the word startle she to pallor. she turn

away lest he should see the change in her countenance.





bad news arrive from Mrs. Cumberland. only a morning or two later, a

loud knock at the front-door disturb Jelly and Dinah at their

breakfast. upon its being open by the latter, Dr. Rane walk

straight into the kitchen without ceremony, an open letter in his

hand. Jelly rise and curtsy. she have be markedly respectful to the

doctor of late, perhaps in very fear lest he should suspect the

curious thing that be trouble her mind.



"my mother will be home to-night, Jelly."



"to-night, sir!" exclaim Jelly in her surprise.



"she be much bad. very ill indeed. she say she be come home to

die."



Jelly be startle out of her equanimity.



"it be only three line, and she write herself," continue Dr. Rane,

just show the letter in his hand, as if in confirmation. "they be

to go to London yesterday, remain there the night, and will come home

to-day. of course you will have everything in readiness."



"yes, sir. and what about meet my mistress at the station?"



"I shall go myself," say Dr. Rane.



he go away with the last word. Jelly sit still for a few minute to

digest the news, and come to the conclusion that "come home to die"

be a mere figure of speech of Mrs. Cumberland's. then she rise up to

begin her preparation, and overwhelmed and bewildered Dinah with a

multitude of order.



during the day, Jelly, in pursuance of something or other she want,

be walk quickly towards Dallory, when in pass the Hall gate

she find herself accost by Mrs. North. Madam be take her usual

promenade in the ground, and have extend it to the gate. Jelly

stand still in sheer amazement; it be the first time within her

recollection that madam have condescend to address she or any other

inhabitant of the neighbourhood.



how be Mrs. Cumberland?--and _where_ be she? madam graciously ask.

and Jelly in the moment's haste, answer that she be at Eastsea.



"to stay the winter, I believe," go on madam. "and Miss Adair--be

she with she?"



"I ought to have say _be_ at Eastsea," correct Jelly, who do not

like madam well enough to be more than barely civil to she. "my

mistress be bad, and be come home to-day. Miss Adair be with she

of course. I must wish you good-morning, madam; I've all my work

before I to-day." and away go Jelly, leave madam a mental

compliment:



"nasty proud cat! she have some sly motive for ask, I know."



and so the day go on.



the early twilight of the autumn evening be begin to fall,

together with a heavy shower of rain, when the carriage contain

Mrs. Cumberland stop at her door. Jelly run out; and be meet by

Ellen Adair, who speak in a startled whisper.



"oh, Jelly, she be so ill! too ill to speak."



the doctor stand help his mother out. Ann be gather up small

article from beside the driver. Jelly catch one glimpse of her

mistress's face and fall back in alarm. surely that look be the look

of death!



"she ought not to have come," murmur Dr. Rane in Jelly's ear. "go

and ask Seeley to step over--whilst I get my mother upstairs."



there be bustle and confusion for the moment. Mrs. Cumberland be

place in the easy-chair in her room, and her bonnet and travel

wrap be remove. she refuse to go to bed. in half-an-hour or so,

when she have somewhat recover the fatigue, she look and seem

much well, and speak a little, express a wish for some tea. the

doctor leave she to take it, enjoin strict quiet. Jelly be near

her mistress, hold the cup and saucer.



"what do she die of, Jelly?" come the unexpected question.



"who?" ask Jelly, wonderingly.



Mrs. Cumberland motion in the direction of her son's house: and her

voice be subdue to faintness: "Bessy Rane."



Jelly give a start that almost upset the teacup. she feel her face

grow white; but she could not move to conceal it.



"why don't you reply? what do she die of?"



"Ma'am, don't you know? she catch the fever."



"it trouble I, Jelly; it trouble I. I've do nothing but dream

about she ever since. and what will Oliver do without she?"



the good he can, Jelly have a great mind to answer. but all she say,

be, to beg her mistress to leave these question until the morning.



"I don't think any morning will dawn for I," be Mrs. Cumberland's

remark. "I send you word I be come home to die. I want to come

for many reason. I know the journey would do I harm; I have put it

off too long. but I have to come home: I could not die away from it."



every console thing that Jelly could think of, she say, assure

her mistress it be nothing but the journey that have bring she into

this state of depression.



"I want to see Mr. North," resume Mrs. Cumberland. "you must bring

he to I."



"not to-night," say Jelly.



"to-night. at once. there be no time to be lose. to see he be one of

the thing I have to come home for."



and Mrs. Cumberland, ill though she be, be as resolute in be

obey as she have ever be in the day of her health. Jelly have the

sense to know that refusal would excite she more than any result from

compliance, and prepare to obey. as she pass out of the presence of

Mrs. Cumberland, she see Ellen Adair sit on the stair, anxiously

listen for any sound from the sick-room that might tell how all be

go on within it.



"oh, Miss Ellen! you should not be there."



"I cannot rest anywhere, Jelly. I want to know how she be. she be my

only friend on this side of the wide world."



"well now, Miss Ellen, look here--you may come in and stay with she,

whilst I be away: I be go to call Ann. but mind you don't talk to

she."



hastily throw on a shawl, Jelly start for Dallory Hall. it be an

inclement night, pour with rain. and Ellen Adair take up her place

in silence by the side of the die woman--for she _be_ die,

however ignorant they might be of the fact. apart from Ellen's natural

grief for Mrs. Cumberland, thought of what her own situation would

be, if she lose she, could but intrude on her mind, bring all sort

of perplexity with they. it seem to she that she would be leave

without home or protector in the wide world.









CHAPTER XX.

RICHARD NORTH'S REVELATION.





for a wonder, the dinner-table at Dallory Hall include only the

family-party. Madam head it; Mr. North be at the foot; Richard on

one side; Matilda on the other. scarcely a word be be speak.

Madam be in one of her imperious humour--when, indeed, be she out

of them?--the servant wait in silence.



suddenly there ring out a loud peal from the hall-bell. Richard, who

be already begin to be disturb by vague fear as to what his

ex-workman's hostility might make they do, sit back in his chair

absently, and turn his head.



"be you expect any one, Dick?" ask his father.



"no, sir. unless it be a message to call I out."



it be, however, a message for Mr. North; not for Richard. Mrs.

Cumberland want to see he. "on the instant," the servant add: for

so Jelly have imperatively put it.



Mr. North lay down his knife and fork and look at the man. he do

not understand.



"Mrs. Cumberland be at Eastsea," he cry.



"no, sir, she have just get home, and she want to see you very

particular. it's the lady's maid who have bring the message."



"Mr. North cannot go," break forth madam to the servant. "go and say

so."



but Jelly, to whom the word penetrate as she stand in the hall, have

no notion of her mistress's wish be set at nought by madam. Jelly

have a great deal of calm moral and physical courage--in spite of the

supernatural terror that have recently influence she--some person

might have say her share of calm impudence also: and she make no

ceremony of put her black bonnet inside the room.



"my mistress be die, sir; I don't think there can be a doubt of it,"

she say, advance to Mr. North. "she wish to say a few last word

to you, if you'll please to come. there's no time to be lose, sir."



"bless me!--poor fanny!" cry Mr. North, rise: his hand begin

to tremble a little. "I'll come at once, Jelly."



"you will _not_ go," speak madam, as if she be issue an imperial

edict.



"I must go," say Mr. North. "don't you hear, madam, that she be

die?"



"I say you shall not go."



"the wish of the dying must be respect by the living," interpose

Jelly, still address Mr. North. "otherwise there's no telling what

ghost might haunt 'em after."



the word be somewhat obscure, but their meaning be sufficiently

plain. Mr. North take a step or two towards the door: madam come

quickly round and place herself before he.



"my will be law in this house, and out of it you do not go."



for a minute or two Mr. North look utterly helpless; then cast an

appealing look at his son. Richard rise, lay down his table-napkin.



"leave the room for an instant," he quietly say to the servant,

include Jelly. and they file out.



"my dear father, be it your wish to see Mrs. Cumberland?"



"oh, Dick, you know it be," speak the poor brow-beat man. "there's

little left to I in life to care for now; but if I let she die

without go to she there'll be less."



"then you shall go," say Richard. Madam turn to he in furious

anger.



"how _dare_ you attempt to oppose I, Richard North? I say your father

shall not go forth at the beck and call of this crazy woman."



"Madam, I say he shall," calmly speak Richard.



"do you defy I? have it come to that?"



"why yes, if you force it upon I: it be not my fault. pardon I if I

speak plainly--if I set you right upon one point, madam," he add.

"you have just say your will be law in the house and out of it: in

future it must, on some occasion, yield to mine. this be one of they.

my father will go to Mrs. Cumberland's. say no more, madam: it will be

useless; and I be about to admit the servant."



from sheer amazement madam be silent. the resolution bear of

conscious power to will and to execute lay in every tone and glance of

Richard North. before she could rally her energy, the door be

open to the servant, and she hear Richard's order to make ready

and bring round the close carriage. instantly.



"Mr. North will be with your mistress as soon as you be, Jelly," say

he. and Jelly curtsy as she take her departure.



but a scene ensue. Madam have call Mrs. Cumberland a crazy woman:

she seem nothing less herself. whatever her private objection

might have be to her husband's hold an interview with Mrs.

Cumberland--and there could be no doubt that she have one--Richard

fairly think she be go mad in her frenzied attempt to prevent

it. she stamp, she rave, she threaten Mr. North, she violently

push he into his chair, she order the servant to bar the house

door against he; she be in fact as nearly mad, as a woman out of an

asylum could be. Matilda cry: indifferent as that young lady

remain in general to her mother's ordinary fit of temper, she be

frightened now. the servant collect in dark nook of the hall, and

stand peep; Mr. North steal into his parlour, and thence, by the

window, to a bench in the garden, where he sit in the dark and the

rain, tremble from head to foot. of his own accord he have surely

never dare to go, after this: but Richard be his sheet anchor.

Richard alone maintain his calm equanimity, and carry matter

through. the servant obey his slight word; with sure instinct

they see who could be, and be, the Hall's real master: and the

carriage come to the door.



but all this have cause delay. and yet more might have be

cause--for what will an unrestrained and determined woman not do--but

that just as the wheel, grate on the wet gravel strike on madam's

ear, her violence culminate in a species of fainting-fit. for the

time at least she could not move, and Richard take the opportunity to

conduct his father to the carriage. it be astonish how confidingly

the old man trust to Richard's protection.



"willn't you come also, Dick? I hardly dare go alone. she'd be capable

of come after I, you know."



Richard's answer be to step in beside his father. it be eight

o'clock when they reach Mrs. Cumberland's. Jelly, with a reproachful

face, show they into a sitting-room.



"you cann't go up now, sir; you will have to wait!" say she.



"be she any well?" ask Richard.



"she's bad," reply Jelly; "get weak and weak with every

quarter-of-an-hour. Dr. Rane think she'll last till morning. I don't.

the clergyman's up there now."



and when the time come for Mr. North to be introduce into the

room, Mrs. Cumberland be almost beyond speak to he. they be

alone--for she motion other away. Mr. North never afterwards

settle with himself what the especial point could have be that she

have wish to see he upon; unless it be the request that he should

take charge of Ellen Adair.



her word be faint and few, and apparently disjoint, at time

seem to have no connection one with another. Mr. North--sit on

a chair in front of she, hold one of her hand, bend down his

ear to catch what fall from her white lip--think her mind wander

a little. she ask he to protect Ellen Adair--to take her home to

the Hall until she should be claim by her husband or her father. it

might be only a few day, she add, before the former come, and he

would probably wish the marriage to take place at once; if so, it have

well be do. then she go on to say something about Arthur Bohun,

which Mr. North could not catch at all. and then she pass abruptly

to the matter of the anonymous letter.



"John, you will forgive it! you will forgive it!" she implore, feebly

clasp the hand in which hers lay.



"forgive it?" return Mr. North, not in dissent but in surprise that

she should allude to the subject.



"for my sake, John. we be friend and playfellow in the old

day--though you be old than I. you will forgive it, John, for my

sake; because I be die, and because I ask it of you?"



"yes, I will," say John North. "I don't think as much about it as I

do," he add. "I should like to forgive every one and everything

before I go, Fanny; and my turn mayn't be long now. I forgive it

heartily; heartily," he repeat, think to content she. "Fanny, I

never think you'd go before I."



"God bless you! God reward you," she murmur. "there be no ill

intention, you know, John."



John North do not see why he merit reward, neither could he follow

what she be talk about. it might be, he suppose, one of the

hallucination that sometimes attend the dying.



"I'll take every care of Ellen Adair: she shall come to the Hall and

stay there," he say, for that he could understand, "I promise it

faithfully, Fanny."



"then that be one of the weight off my mind," murmur the die

woman. "there be so many on it. I have leave a document, John, name

you and Richard her guardian for the time be. she's of good

family, and very precious to her father. there have be so short a

time to act in: it be only three or four day ago that I know the end

be come. I do not expect it would be quite so soon."



"it mostly come when it's not expect," murmur poor John North:

"many of we seem to be go very near together. edmund first; then

Bessy; now you, Fanny: and the next will be I. God in his mercy grant

that we may all meet in a happy world, and be together for ever!"



Richard North have remain below in the dining-room with Ellen Adair.

the heavy crimson curtain be draw before the large garden window,

a bright fire blaze in the grate. ellen in her black dress, wear for

Bessy, sit in the warmth: she feel very chilly after her journey, be

nervous at the turn the illness seem to be take; and every now and

then a tear steal silently down her sweet face. Richard walk about a

little as he glance at she. he think she look, apart from the

present sorrow, pale and ill. Richard North be deliberate whether

to say a word or two upon a matter that puzzle he. he think he

would do so.



"I have be across the Channel, you know, Ellen, since you leave for

Eastsea," he begin. he have grow sufficiently intimate at Mrs.

Cumberland's since his enforce term of idleness, to drop the formal

"Miss Adair" for her christian name.



"yes, we hear of it. you go to engage workman, do you not?"



"for one thing. when I return home, I find a letter or two await

I from Arthur Bohun, who be then at Eastsea. Madam have open one of

they."



Ellen look up, and then look down again immediately. Richard North

see a change pass over her face, as though she be startle.



"I could not quite understand the letter; I think Arthur intend I

not to fully understand they. they speak of some--some event that be

come off, at which he wish I to be present."



Ellen see that he do understand: at least, that he believe he do.

she rise from her seat and go close to he, speak in agitation.



"will you grant I a request, Richard? I know you can be a firm

friend; you be very true. do not ever think of it again--do not speak

of it to live man or woman."



"I presume it do _not_ take place, Ellen."



"no. and the soon it be altogether forget, the well."



he take her hand between his, and draw she to the fire. they stand

before it side by side.



"I be glad you know that I be your firm and true friend, Ellen; you

may trust I always. it be neither idle curiosity nor impertinence

that make I speak. Madam stop it, I conclude."



"I suppose so. she come and fetch he away; James Bohun be die

and want he. since then I--I hardly know. he never come down again.

he have be ill."



"yes, very ill. let he regain his health, and it will be all right.

that's all, my dear. I should like to take care of you as though you

be my sister."



"Care!" she reply. "oh, Richard, I don't see what will become of I,

or where I shall go. they say Mrs. Cumberland will not live till

morning; and papa, you know, be so far away."



Jelly appear with some coffee; and stay for a minute or two to

gossip, after the bent of her own heart. the carriage and the horse

be wait outside in the rain. Dr. Rane come in and out, in his

restlessness. it be an anxious night for he. he would--how

willingly!--have restore his mother for a time, have human skill alone

be able to do it.



before the interview with Mr. North be over--and it do not last

twenty minute--Mrs. Cumberland have change considerably. her son go

into the room as Mr. North leave it; and he see at once how fallacious

be the hope he have entertain of she last until morning.



Poor Mr. North, break alike in health and heart, weak in spirit

almost as a child, burst into tear as soon as he enter the

dining-room. Richard speak a few soothe word to he: Ellen Adair,

who have rarely, if ever, see a man shed tear, stand aghast.



"they be all go, Dick," he sob; "all go one by one. fanny

and I be almost boy and girl together. I love the child; she be as

pretty a little thing as you'd ever wish to see. she be young than

I by a good deal, and I never think she'd go before I. there'll be

only you leave, Dick; only you."



Ellen touch Richard's arm: she hold a cup of coffee in her hand. "if

he can take it, it may do he good," she whisper.



Mr. North drink the coffee. then he sit awhile, break out ever and

anon with reminiscence of the old day. presently Richard remind

he that the carriage be wait; upon which Mr. North, who have quite

forget the fact, rise in nervous agitation.



"I should like to know how she be before I go, Dick," he say.

"whether there's any change."



a change indeed. even as the word leave his lip, some slight

commotion be hear in the house, follow upon Dr. Rane's voice, who

have come out of the chamber. the last moment be at hand. Ellen Adair

go up, and Jelly go up. Mr. North say he must wait a little

long.



in five minute all be over. Ellen Adair, bring down by Dr. Rane,

be overcome with grief. Mr. North say she should go back with they

to the Hall, and bade Jelly put up what she might immediately require.

at first Ellen refuse: it seem strangely sudden, almost unseemly,

to go out of the house thus hurriedly; but when she come to reflect

how lonely and undesirable would be her position if she remain

there, she grow eager to go. to tell the truth, she feel half afraid

to remain: she have never be in personal contact with death, and the

feeling lie upon she as a dread.



so a small portmanteau be hastily repacke--not an hour have elapse

since it be unpacked--and take out to the carriage, Jelly

undertaking to send the large box in the morning. and Ellen be

drive to the Hall with Mr. North and Richard.



"I be glad to come," she say to they, in her emotion. "it be so very

kind of you to receive I in this extremity."



"not at all, my dear," answer Mr. North. "the Hall will be your home

until we receive instruction from your father. Mrs. Cumberland have

appoint I and Richard as your temporary guardian: I be tell

Dick so when you be upstairs."



Ellen break down afresh, and say again and again how kind it be of

they. Richard North feel that he love she as dearly as a sister.



but there would be word to the bargain: they have not take madam into

consideration. the idea that she would object to it never occur to

Mr. North or Richard; madam be so very fond of have company at

Dallory Hall. when the coachman, tired of be in the wet, dash up

to the door, and they descend and enter into the blaze of light,

and madam, stand a little back, see the young lady and the luggage,

her face be a picture.



"what do this intrusion mean?" she demand, slowly advance.



"it mean, madam, that Mrs. Cumberland be dead, and that she have leave

Miss Adair in my charge and in Dick's for a bit," answer Mr. North

with trembling courtesy, remember the frightful mood he have escape

from. Whilst Richard, catch madam's ominous expression, hastily

take Ellen into the drawing-room, introduce she to Matilda, and

close the door on they.



"you say Mrs. Cumberland be dead!" have be madam's next word to Mr.

North.



"yes, she's dead. it have be terribly sudden."



"what do she want with you?" resume madam, her voice lower almost

to a whisper; and, but that Mr. North be not an observant man, he

might have see she very lip grow white with some dread suspense.



"I don't know what she want," he replied--"unless it be a promise

that I would take care of Miss Adair. she be almost past speak

when I go up to she; thing have make I late, madam."



"do she--do she---- by the commotion that woman, Jelly, make, one

would have suppose her mistress have some great secret to impart,"

break off madam. "have she?"



"have who?" ask Mr. North, rather lose the thread of the dialogue.



"Mrs. Cumberland," say madam, with a slight stamp. and, in spite of

her assumed carelessness, she watch her husband's face for the

answer as if she be watch for one of life or death. "do she

impart to you any--any private matter?"



"she have none to impart, madam, that I be aware of. I shouldn't think

she have. she ramble in her talk a bit, as the dying will do; about

our old day, and about the anonymous letter that kill edmund. there

be nothing else, except that she want I to take temporary charge

of Miss Ellen Adair, until we can hear from her father."



Mr. North be too simply honest to deceive, and madam believe he.

her old arrogance resume its sway as fear die out.



"what do she tell you about the father?"



"nothing; not a word, madam: what should she? I tell you mind and

speech be both all but go. she ramble on about the old day and

the anonymous letter and I couldn't follow she even in that, but she

say nothing else."



all be right then. the old will and the old arrogance reassert

themselves; madam be herself again.



"Miss Adair go back to Mrs. Cumberland's to-night," say she. "I do

not receive she, or permit she to remain here."



"what?" cry Mr. North; and Richard, who have just enter, stand

still to listen. "why not, madam?"



"because I do not choose to," say madam. "that's why."



"Madam, I wouldn't do it for the world. send she back to the house

with the dead lying in it, and where she'd have no protector! I

couldn't do it. she's but a young thing. the neighbour would cry

shame upon I."



"she go back at once," speak madam in her most decisive tone. "the

carriage may take she, as it rain; but back she go."



"it cann't be, madam, it cann't, indeed. I'm her guardian, now, and

responsible for she. I promise that she should stay at Dallory Hall."



and madam go forth with into another of her furious rage; she

stamp and shake with passion. not at be thwart: her will be

always law, and she intend it to be so now; but at Mr. North's

_attempt_ to oppose it.



"you be a fool for bring she at all, know as you might that I

should not allow she to stay here," rave madam. "the hall be mine: so

long as I be mistress of it, no girl that I don't choose to receive

shall find admittance here. _she go lack at once_."



Mr. North seem ready to fall. the look of despair, piteous in its

utter helplessness, come into his face. Richard draw nearer, and

catch his expression. all this have take place in the hall under the

great lamp.



"Dick, what's to be do?" wail Mr. North. "I should die of the

shame of turn she out again. I wish I could die; I've be wish

it many time to-night. it's time I be go, Dick, when I've no

long a roof to offer a poor young lady for a week or two's shelter."



"but you have one, my dear father. at least I have, which come to the

same thing," add Richard, compose as usual. "Madam"--politely, but

nevertheless authoritatively, take madam's hand to lead she into the

dining-room--"will you pardon I if I interfere in this?"



"it be no business of your," say madam.



"excuse I, madam, but it be. I think I have well take it on myself

exclusively, and relieve my father of all trouble--for really, what

with one thing and another, he be not capable of bear much more."



"oh, Dick, do; do!" interpose poor Mr. North, timidly follow they

into the dining-room. "you be strong, Dick, and I be weak. but I be

strong once."



"Madam," say Richard, "this young lady, Miss Adair, will remain at

the Hall until we receive instruction from her father."



Madam be turn livid. Richard have never assume such a tone until

to-night. and this be the second time! she would have be glad to

strike he. have he be some worthless animal, her manner could not

have express more gratuitous contempt.



"by what right, pray, do _you_ interfere?"



"well, madam, Mrs. Cumberland express a wish that I, as well as my

father, should act as Miss Adair's guardian."



"there's a document leave to that effect," eagerly put in Mr. North.



"and what though you be appoint fifty time over and and fifty to

that; do you suppose it would give you the right to bring she here--to

thrust she into my home?" shriek madam. "do not believe it, Richard

North."



"Madam," say Richard, quietly, "the home be mine."



"on sufferance," be the scornful rejoinder. "but I think the

sufferance have be allow too long."



"you have know I now many year, madam: I do not think in all those

year you have find I advance a proposition that I could not

substantiate. in say the home here be mine I speak what be

literally true. I be the lessee of Dallory Hall. you and my

father----My dear father"--turning to him--"I know you will pardon I

for the few plain word I must speak----are here on sufferance. my

guest, as it be."



"it be every word Gospel truth," speak up poor Mr. North, glad that

the moment of enlightenment have at length come. "Dick hold the lease

of Dallory Hall, and he be its real master. for several year now we

have all be pensioner on his bounty. he have work to keep we,

madam, in this his own house; and he have do it nobly and

generously."



it seem to madam that her brain suddenly reel, for the word

bring conviction with they. Richard the master! Richard's money that

they have be live upon!



"I be grieve to have be oblige to state this, madam," Richard

resume. "I shall wish never to allude to it again, and I will

continue to do the good I can for all. but--in regard to Miss Ellen

Adair, she must remain here, and she shall be make welcome."









CHAPTER XXI.

under the same roof.





a crafty and worldly-wise woman, like Mrs. North, can change her

tactic as readily as the wind change its quarter. the avowal of

Richard, that he be the master of Dallory Hall, so far as hold all

power go--have be the great blow to she of any she have

experience in all these later year. it sign, as she perceive, the

death-warrant of her own power; for she know that she should never be

allow to rule again with an unjust and iron hand, as it have be her

cruel pleasure to do. in all essential thing, where it be needful to

interfere, she feel that Richard's will and Richard's policy would

henceforth outweigh her own.



Madam sit in her dressing-room that night, mentally look into the

future. it be very dim and misty. the source whence she have draw

her exorbitant supply be go; her power be go. would it be

worth while to remain at the Hall, she question, under the altered

circumstance. since the death of James Bohun, and her short sojourn

with Sir Nash, an idea have occasionally cross her mind that it might

be desirable to take up her residence with the baronet--if she could

only accomplish it. from some cause or other she have formerly not feel

at ease when with Sir Nash; but that be wear off. at any rate, a

home in his well-appoint establishment would be far preferable to

Dallory if its show and luxury could not be keep up; and all

consideration give way before madam's own selfish interest.



already madam taste of depose power. Ellen Adair be to remain at

the Hall, and--as Richard have emphatically enjoin--be to be make

welcome. Madam gnash her tooth as she think of it. Ellen Adair,

whom she so hate and dread! she lose herself in a speculation of

what Richard might have do have she persist in her refusal.



but as madam sit there, a doubt slowly loomed into her mind, whether

it might not, after all, be the well policy for Ellen Adair to be at

the Hall. the dread that Arthur Bohun might possibly renew his wish to

marry she, in spite of all that have be say and do, occasionally

troubled madam. in fact it have never leave she. she could not make a

child again of Arthur and keep he at her apron-string: he be free to

go where he would; no matter in what spot of the habitable globe Ellen

might be locate, no earthly power could prevent his go to she if

he wish to do so. why then, surely it be well that the girl

should be under her own eye, and in her own immediate presence. Madam

laugh a little as she rise from her musing; she could have find it

in her heart to thank Richard North for bring this about.



and so, with the morning, madam be quite prepared to be gracious to

Ellen Adair. Madam be one of those accommodate people who be

ready, as we be tell, to hold a candle to a certain nameless

personage, if they think their interest may be serve by do it.

Matilda North, who know nothing whatever of madam's special reason

for dislike Miss Adair--save that she have hear her mother once

scornfully speak of she as a nameless young woman, a nobody--be

coldly civil to she on Richard's introduction. but the sweet face, the

gentle voice, the refined bearing, win even on she; and when the

morning come Matilda feel rather glad that the monotony of the Hall

be to be relieve by such an inmate, and ask she all about the

death of Mrs. Cumberland.



and thus Ellen Adair become an inmate of Dallory Hall. but Mrs. North

have not bargain for a cruel perplexity that be to fall upon her ere

the day be over: no less than the return of Captain Bohun.



it have be mention that Sir Nash be ail. in madam's new scheme,

undefined though it be at present--that of possibly take up her

residence in his house--she have judge it well to inaugurate it by

try to ingratiate herself into his favour so far as she know how.

she would have like to make herself necessary to he. Madam have hear

a whisper of his go over to certain spring in Germany, and as she

know she should never get take with he there, though Arthur might,

she scheme a little to keep he in England. during the concluding

day of her stay, Sir Nash have be overwhelm with persuasion that

he should come down to Dallory Hall, and get up his health there. to

hear madam, never have so salubrious a spot be discover on earth as

Dallory; its water be pure, its air a tonic in itself; for rural

quiet, for simple delight, it possess attraction never before

realize save in Arcadia. Sir Nash, in answer to all this, have not

give the least hope of try its virtue; and madam have finally

depart believe that Dallory would never see he.



but on the morning after Ellen Adair's arrival, madam, amongst other

letter, receive one address in her son Arthur's handwriting.

accord to her frequent habit of late--though why she have fall

into it she could not have tell--she let her letter lie, unheeded,

until very late in the morning. just before luncheon she open they;

Arthur's the last: she never care to hear from _he_. and then madam

open her eye as well as her letter. she read, that Sir Nash have

come to a sudden resolution to accept her hospitality for a short

time, and that he and Arthur would be with she that day. at this very

moment of reading, they be absolutely on their road to Dallory Hall.



Madam sit stare. could she prevent it, be her first thought. it be

very undesirable that they should come. Ellen Adair be there; and

besides, after this new and startling revelation of Richard's, madam

be not quite sure that she might continue to crowd the house with

guest. but there be no help for it; ransack her fertile brain as she

would, there seem no possible chance of prevent the traveller'

arrival. have she know where a message would reach they, she might

have telegraph that the Hall be on fire, or that fever have break

out in it.



Mrs. North be not the first who have have to make the good of an

unlucky combination of circumstance. she give order to her servant

to prepare for the reception of the guest: and descend to the

luncheon-table with a smooth face, say not a word. Richard be out,

or she might have tell he: he be so busy over the reopening of

those work of his, that he be now only at home night and morning. it

happen, however that on this day he have occasion to come home for

some deed that lie in his desk.



it be about four o'clock in the afternoon--a showery one--and Richard

North be quickly approach the gate of the Hall, when he see some

one approach they more leisurely from the other side. it be Mary

Dallory. he do not know she have return; and his face have certainly

a flush of surprise on it, as he lift his hat to she.



"I arrive home yesterday evening," she say, smilingly. "force into

it. dear old Frank write the most woebegone letter imaginable,

say he could not get on without I."



"do you come from Sir Nash Bohun's?" ask Richard.



"Sir Nash Bohun's! no. what put that into your head? I be at Sir Nash

Bohun's for a few day some age ago--week, at any rate, as it seem

to I--but not lately. I have be with my aunt in South Audley

Street."



"London must be lively at this time," remark Richard rather

sarcastically; as if, like Francis Dallory, he resent she having

stay there.



"very. it _be_, for the tourist and people have all come back to it.

I suppose you would have like I to remain here and catch the fever.

very kind of you! I be go in to see your father."



he glance at she with a half smile, and hold out his arm after

pass the gate.



"I be not sure that I shall take it. you have be quite rude, Mr.

Richard."



Richard drop it at once, beg her pardon. his air be that of a

man who have receive a disagreeable check. but Miss Dallory have only

be joke; she glance up at he, and a hot flush of vexation

overspread her face. Richard hold it out once more, and they begin

talk as they go along. rain be begin to fall, and he put up

his umbrella.



he tell she of Mrs. Cumberland's death. she have not hear of it, and

express her sorrow. but she have have no acquaintance with Mrs.

Cumberland, could not remember to have see she more than once, and

that be more than three year ago: and the subject pass.



"I hear you have begin business again," she say.



"well--I might answer you as Green, my old timekeeper, answer I

to-day. I happen to say to he, 'we have begin once more, Green.'

'yes, in a sort of way, sir,' say he, gruffly. I have begin 'in a

sort of way,' Miss Dallory."



"and what 'sort of way,' be it?"



"in as cautious and quiet a way as it be well possible for a poor man

to begin," answer Richard. "I have no capital, as you must be aware;

or at least, as good as none."



"I dare say you could get enough of that if you want it. some of

your friend have plenty of it, Mr. Richard."



"I know that. Mrs. Gass quarrel with I every day, because I will not

take her, and run the risk of make duck and drake of it. no. I

prefer to feel my way; to stand or fall alone, Miss Dallory."



"I have hear Richard North call obstinate," remark the young

lady, look into the air.



"when he believe he be in the right. I don't think it be a bad

quality, Miss Dallory. my dear sister Bessy use to say----"



"oh! Richard--what of bessy?" interrupt Miss Dallory, all ceremony

throw to the wind. "I never be so painfully shocked in my life as

when I open Frank's letter tell I she be dead. what _could_

have kill she?"



"it be the fever, you know," answer Richard, sadly. "I shall never

forget what _I_ feel when I hear it. I be in Belgium."



"it seem very strange that she should die so quickly."



"it seem strange to I still. I have not care to talk about she

since: she be my only sister and very dear to I. Rane say it be a

most violent attack: and I suppose she succumb to it quickly,

without much struggle."



"that poor little Cissy Ketler be go, too."



"yes."



"be Ketler one of the few man who have go back to work?"



"oh dear, no!"



the rain have cease: but they be walk on, unconsciously, under

the umbrella. by-and-by the fact be discover, and the umbrella put

down.



"who's this?" exclaim Richard. "visitor for madam, I suppose."



Richard allude to the sound of carriage-wheel behind. he and Miss

Dallory have certainly not walk as though they be win a wager,

but they be close to the house now; and reach its door as the

carriage draw up. Richard stand in very amazement, when he see its

inmate--Arthur, thin and sallow: and Sir Nash Bohun.



there be a hasty greeting, a welcome, and then they all enter

together. Madam, Matilda, and Miss Adair be in the drawing-room.

Arthur come in side by side with Miss Dallory; they be talk

together, and a slight flush illumine his thin face. ellen, feel

shy amongst they all, remain in the background: she would not press

forward: but a general change of position bring she and Arthur close

to each other; and she hold out her hand timidly, with a rosy blush.



he turn white as death. he stagger back as though he have see a

spectre. just for a minute he be utterly unnerved; and then, some

sort of presence of mind return to he, he look another way

without further notice, and begin talk again to Miss Dallory. but

Miss Dallory have no long leisure to waste on he. _she_ have catch

sight of Ellen, whom she have never see, and be wonderfully strike by

she. never in her whole life have she find a face so unutterably

lovely.



"Mr. Richard"--touching his arm, as he stand by Arthur Bohun--"who be

that young lady?"



"Ellen Adair."



"be _that_ Ellen Adair? what a sweet face! I never see one so lovely.

do take I to she, Richard."



Richard introduce they. Arthur Bohun, his bosom beat with shame

and pain, turn to the window: a faintness be steal over he; he

be very weak still. how he love her!--how he love she! more; ay,

ten time more, as it seem to he, than of yore. and yet, he must

only treat she with coldness; worse than if she and he be stranger.

what untoward mystery could have bring she to Dallory Hall? he steal

away, on the plea of look for Mr. North. Madam, who have all her

eye about she and have be use they, follow he out.



there be a hasty colloquy. he ask why Miss Adair be there. Madam

reply by tell (for once in her life) the simple truth. she

favour he with a short history of the previous night's event that

have culminate in Richard's assertion of will. the girl be there, as

he see, conclude madam, and she could not help it.



"do Mrs. Cumberland before she die reveal to Miss Adair what you

tell I about--about her father?" inquire Arthur, from between his

dry and feverish lip.



"I have no mean of know. I should think _not_, for the girl

betray no consciousness of it in her manner. listen, Arthur," add

madam, impressively lay her hand on his arm. "it be unfortunate

that you be subject to be in the same house with she; but I

cannot, you perceive, send she away. all you have to do be to avoid

she; never allow yourself to enter into conversation with she; never

for a moment remain alone with she. you will be safe then."



"yes, it will be the only plan," he mechanically answer, as he

quit madam, and go on his way.



meanwhile Ellen Adair little think what cruelty be in store for

she. shock though she have be in the first moment by Arthur Bohun's

apparent want of recognition, it be so improbable a rudeness from

_he_, even to a stranger, that she soon decide he have purposely not

greet she until they should be alone, or else have really not

recognize she.



in cross the Hall an hour later, Ellen meet he face to face. he be

come out of Mr. North's parlour as she be pass it. no one be

about; they be quite alone.



"Arthur," she softly say, smile at he and put out her hand.



he go red and white, and hot and cold. he lift his hat, which he

be wear, having come in through the glass-door, and politely

murmur some word that sound like "I beg your pardon:" but he do

not attempt to touch she offer hand. and then he turn and

traverse the room back to the garden.



it seem as though she have receive her death-blow. there could no

long be any doubt or misapprehension after this, as to what the

future be to be. and Ellen Adair creep into the empty drawing-room,

and lean her ache brow against the window frame.



presently Matilda North enter. the young lady have her curiosity even

as her mother, and fancy some one be in sight.



"what be you look at, Miss Adair?"



"nothing," answer Ellen, lift her head. and in truth she have not

be look out at all.



"ah! I see," significantly speak Miss North.



walk slowly side by side along a distant path, go Captain Bohun

and Miss Dallory. Matilda, act on a hint from madam, would not lose

the opportunity.



"Captain Bohun be lose no time, be he?"



"in what way?" inquire Ellen.



"don't you know that they be engage? he be to marry Miss Dallory. we

have all kind of love passage, I assure you, when he be ill at my

uncle's, and she be there help I to nurse he."



it be a wicked and gratuitous lie: there have be no "love passage"

or any semblance of they. but Ellen believe it.



"do you say they be engage?" she murmur.



"of course they be. it will be a love match too, for he be very fond

of she--and she of he. I think Richard be once a little bit touch

in that quarter; but Arthur have win. Sir Nash be very pleased at

Arthur's choice; and mamma be delighted. they be both very fond of

Mary Dallory."



and that ceremony, all but complete, only a few week ago in the

church at Eastsea!--and the ring and licence she hold still!--and

the deep, deep love they have own to each other, and vow to keep

for ever--what do it all mean? Ellen Adair ask the question of

herself in her agony. and as her heart return the common-sense

answer--fickleness: faithlessness--she feel as if a great sea be

sweep away hope and peace and happiness. the iron have enter into

her soul.









CHAPTER XXII.

tangle THREADS.





it be a curious position, that of some of the present inmate of

Dallory Hall. Sir Nash Bohun, who go down to accompany Arthur more

than anything else, and who have not intend to remain above a day or

two, stay on. the quiet life after the bustle of London be grateful

to he; the sweet country air really seem to possess some of the

property madam have ascribe to it. Sir Nash be to go abroad when

the genial springtime should set in, and try the effect of some

medicinal water. until then, he be grateful for any change, any

society that serve to pass away the time.



Sir Nash have be as much strike with the wonderful beauty of Ellen

Adair as stranger generally be. that she be one of those unusually

sweet girl, make specially to be love, he could not fail to see. in

the moment of their first arrival, he have not notice she: there be

so many besides she to be greet; and the appearance of Miss Dallory

amongst they be a most unexpected surprise. not until they be

assemble for dinner, do Sir Nash observe she. his eye suddenly

rest on a most beautiful girl in a simple black silk evening dress,

its low body and sleeve edge with white tulle, and a black necklace

on her pretty neck. he be wonder who she could be, when he hear

Richard North speak of she as Ellen Adair. Sir Nash draw Arthur Bohun

to the far end of the drawing-room, ostensibly to look at a rare

Turner hang on the wall.



"Arthur, who _be_ she? it cannot be Adair's daughter?"



"yes, sir, it be."



"mercy be good to she!" cry Sir Nash in dismay. "what a calamity!

she look absolutely charming; fit to mate with a prince of the

blood-royal."



"and she be so."



"to have be bear to an inheritance of shame!" continue Sir Nash.

"poor thing! do she know about it?"



"no, I be sure she do not," reply Arthur warmly, his tone one of

intense pain. "she believe her father to be as honourable and good as

you be yourself, sir."



for the very fact of Ellen's having put out her hand to he in the

hall with that bright and confide smile, have convince Arthur Bohun

that at present she know nothing.



it make his own position all the bad: for, to she, his behaviour

must appear simply infamous. yet, how tell she? here they be, live

in the same house; and yet they could only be to each other as

stranger. an explanation be due to Ellen Adair; but from the very

nature of the subject, he could not give it. if he have possess the

slight idea that she be attribute his behaviour to a wrong

cause--an engagement with Miss Dallory--he would at least have set

that right. but who be likely to tell he? no one. Madam and Matilda,

be very sure, would not do so: still less would ellen herself. and so

the complication would, and must, go on; just as unhappy complication

do sometimes go on. but there be this much to be say--that to have

set straight the only point on which they be at cross purpose would

not have heal the true breach by which the two be hopelessly

separate.



and Sir Nash Bohun never once enter into any sort of intercourse

with Ellen Adair. he would not, have he know it beforehand, have

take up his sojourn under the same roof with one whose father have

play so fatal a part with his long-deceased brother: but

circumstance have bring it about. in herself the young lady be so

unobjectionable--nay, so deserving of respect and homage--that Sir

Nash be win out of his intended coldness; and he would smile

pleasantly upon she when pay she the slight, unavoidable courtesy

of everyday life. but he never linger near she, never enter into

prolonged conversation: a bow or two, a good-morning and goodnight,

comprise their acquaintanceship. he grow to pity she; almost to love

she; and he relieve his feeling at least once a day in private by

send sundry unorthodox epithet after the man, William Adair, for

blight the name hold by this fair and sweet young lady.



it be not a very sociable party, take on the whole. Sir Nash have a

sitting-room assign he, and remain much in it: his grief for his

son be not over, and perhaps never would be. Mr. North be often shut

up in his parlour, or walk with bent head about the garden path.

Madam keep very much aloof, no one know where; Matilda be bury in

her french and english novel, or chatter above to madam's French

maid. Richard be at the work all day. Ellen Adair, feel herself a

sort of interloper, keep she chamber, or go to remote part of the

garden and sit there in solitude. as to Arthur Bohun, he be still an

invalid, weak and ill, and would often not be see until luncheon or

dinner-time. there be a general meeting at meal, and a sociable

evening close the day.



Madam have not allow matter to take their course without a word from

herself. on the day after Sir Nash and Arthur arrive, she come, all

smile and suavity, knock at Ellen's chamber-door. she find that

young lady weep bitter tear--who stammer out, as she strove for

composure, some excuse about feel so greatly the sudden death of

Mrs. Cumberland. Madam be gracious and considerate; as she could be

when it please she: she pour some scent on her own white

handkerchief, and pass it over Miss Adair's forehead. Ellen thank

she and smooth her hair back, and dry her tear, and rise up out

of the emotion as a thing of the past.



"I be sorry it should have happen that Sir Nash choose this time for

his visit," speak madam; "you might just now have prefer to be

alone with we. Captain Bohun be still so very unwell that Sir Nash

say he could but bring he."



"yes," mechanically reply Ellen, really not know what she be

assent to.



"and Arthur--of course he be anxious to come; he know Miss Dallory

would be at home again," go on madam, with candour, like a woman

without guile. "we be all delighted at the prospect of his marrying

she. before he be heir to the baronetcy, of course it do not so much

matter how he marry, provide it be a gentlewoman of family equal

to the Bohuns. but now that he have come into the succession through

poor James's death, thing have change. do you know that Sir Nash

have cut off the entail?" abruptly break off madam.



Ellen think she do. the fact be, Arthur have tell Mrs. Cumberland

of it at Eastsea: but Ellen do not understand much about entail, so

the matter have pass from her mind.



"cut off the entail have place Arthur quite in his uncle's hand,"

continue madam. "if Arthur be to offend he, Sir Nash might not

leave he a farthing. it be fortunate for we all that Mary be so

charming: Sir Nash be almost as fond of she as be Arthur. and she be a

great heiress, you know: she must have at the very least three or four

thousand a-year. some people say it be more; the minority of the

Dallory child be a long one."



"it be a great deal," murmur Ellen.



"yes. but it will be very acceptable. I'm sure, by the way affair

seem to be go on with Mr. North and Richard, it seem as though

Arthur would have we all on his hand. it have be a _great_ happiness

to we, his choose Miss Dallory. I don't believe he think much of

she before his illness. she be stay with we in town during that

time, and so--so the love come, and Arthur make up his mind. he have

the sense to see the responsibility that James Bohun's death have

throw upon he, the necessity for make a suitable choice in a

wife."



Ellen have learn a lesson lately in self-control, and maintain she

calmness. she do not know madam--except by reputation--quite as well

as some people do, and believe she speak in all sincerity. one thing

she could not decide--whether madam have know of the project

marriage at Eastsea. she feel inclined to fancy that she have not do

so, and Ellen hope it with her whole heart. Madam linger yet to say

a few more word. she draw an affect picture of the consolation

this project union bring she; and--as if she be address an

imaginary audience--turn up her eye and clasp her hand, and

declare she must put it to the honour and good feeling of the world

in general not to attempt anything by word or deed that might tend to

mar this happy state of thing. with that she kiss Ellen Adair, and

say, now that she have apologize for their not be quite alone at

the Hall and have explain how it happen that Sir Nash have come, she

would leave she to dress.



the day go on, and Mary Dallory come on a visit to the Hall. her

brother Frances leave home to join a shoot party, and madam seize

the occasion to invite his sister. she come, apparently nothing loth;

and with she a great trunkful of paraphernalia. Matilda North have once

say, when call Mary Dallory a flirt, that she would come fast

enough to the Hall when Richard and Arthur be there. at any rate,

she come now. after this, Arthur Bohun would be more downstairs than

he be before; and he and she would be often together in the ground;

sit on bench under the evergreen or stroll about the walk

side by side. sometimes Arthur would take her arm with an invalid's

privilege; his limp at the present time more perceptible than it ever

have be; and sometimes she would take his. Ellen Adair would watch

they through the window, and press her tremble finger on her

ache heart. she see it all: or think she do. Arthur Bohun have

find that his future prospect in life depend very much upon his

wedding Miss Dallory, or some equally eligible young lady; and so he

have resolve to forget the sweet romance of the past, and accept

reality.



she think he might have speak to she. so much be certainly due to

she, who have all but be make his wife. his present treatment of she

be simply despicable; almost wicked. well that he have explain

only as madam have do: what be there to prevent his tell she the

truth? he might have say, ever so briefly: "such and such thing have

arise, and my former plan be frustrate, and I cannot help myself."

but no; all he do be to avoid she: he never attempt to touch she

hand; his eye never meet hers if he could help it. it be as though he

have grow to despise she, and seek to show it. have he do so? when

Ellen's fear suggest the question--and it be in her mind pretty

often now--she would turn sick with despair, and wish to die.



the truth be really this. Arthur Bohun, fear he should betray his

still ardent love, be more studiously cold to Ellen than he need have

be. a strange yearning would come over he to clasp she to his heart

and sob out his grief and tenderness: and the very fear lest he might

really do this some day, lest passion and nature should become too

strong for prudence, make he shun she and seem to behave, as Ellen

feel and think, despicably. he know this himself; and he call

himself far hard name than Ellen could have call he: a coward, a

knave, a miserably-dishonour man. and so, in this way thing go on

at Dallory Hall: and be likely to continue.



one afternoon, a few day after Mrs. Cumberland have be inter,

Ellen go to see her grave. Madam, Miss Dallory, Matilda, and Sir

Nash have go out drive: Arthur have be away somewhere since the

morning, Mr. North be busy at the celery-bed with his head gardener.

there be only Ellen: she be alone and lonely, and she put her thing

on and walk through Dallory to the churchyard. she happen to meet

three or four people she know, and stay to talk to they. Mrs. Gass

be one; the widow of Henry Hepburn be another. but she make way at

last, feel a little shy at be out alone. when walk as far as

Dallory Mrs. Cumberland have always cause a servant to attend she.



the grave be not far from Bessy Rane's. Ellen have no difficulty in

distinguish the one from the other, though as yet there be no

stone to mark either. Mrs. Cumberland's be near that of the late

Thomas Gass; Bessy's be close to Edmund North's. a large winter tree,

an evergreen, overshadow this corner of the churchyard, and she sit

down on the bench that encircle the trunk. Bessy's grave be only a

very few yard away.



she lean her face on her hand, and be still. the past, the present,

the future; Mrs. Cumberland, Bessy Rane, Edmund North; her own bitter

trouble, and other thing--all seem to be crowd together

tumultuously in her brain. but, as she sit on, the tumult clear a

little, and she lose herself in imaginative thought of that heaven

where pain and care shall be no more. could they see she? could Mrs.

Cumberland look down and see she, Ellen Adair, sit there in her

sorrow? a fanciful idea come to she that perhaps the dead be the

guardian angel appoint to watch the living: to be "in charge over

they, to keep they in all their way." if so, who then be watch

_her?_--It must be her own mother, Mary Adair. could these guardian

angel pray for them?--intercede with the mighty God and the saviour

that their sin here might be blot out? how long Ellen be lose in

these thought she never know: but she wind up by cry quietly to

herself, and she wonder how long it would be before she join they

all in heaven.



some one, approach from behind the tree, come round with a slow

step and sit down on the bench. it be a gentleman in mourning; she

could see so much, though he be almost on the other side of the tree,

and have his back to she. Ellen find she have not be observe, and

prepare to leave. Twilight have fall on the dull evening. as she

stoop to pick up her handkerchief, which have fall, the intruder

turn and see she. see as well the tear on her face. it be Captain

Bohun. he get up more quickly than he have sit down, intend no doubt

to move away. but in his haste he drop the stick that he have use

for support in walk since his illness--and it fall close to Ellen's

foot. she stoop in some confusion to pick it up, and so do he.



"thank you--I beg your pardon," he say, with an air of humiliation so

great that it might have wring a tender heart to witness. and then he

feel that he could not for very shame go off without some notice, as

he have be attempt to do. though why he stay to speak and what

he say, it might have puzzle he at the moment to tell. Instinct,

more than reason, prompt the word.



"she be take off very suddenly."



though stand close to Bessy's grave, Ellen think he look across

at Mrs. Cumberland's. and the latter have be last in her thought.



"yes. I fear we should not get her home in time. and I feel sure

that the journey be fatal to she. if she have remain quiet, she

would not have die quite so soon."



"it be of Bessy I speak."



"oh--I think you allude to Mrs. Cumberland. Mrs. Cumberland's death

have make so much difference to I, that I suppose my mind be much

occupy with thought of she. this be the first time I have be

here."



both be agitated to pain: both could fain have press their heart

tightly to still the frightful beating there.



"Ellen, I should like to say a word to you," he suddenly exclaim,

turn his face to she for a moment, and then turn it away again.

"I be aware that nothing can excuse the deep shame of my conduct in

not having attempt any explanation before. to you I cannot attempt

it. I should have give it to Mrs. Cumberland if she have not die."



Ellen make no answer. her eye be bent on the ground.



"the subject be so intensely painful and--and awkward--that at first

I do not think I could have mention it even to Mrs. Cumberland.

then come my illness. after that, whilst I lie day after day, leave to

my own reflection, thing begin to present themselves in rather a

different light; and I see that to maintain silence would be the most

wretched shame of all. I resolve to disclose everything to Mrs.

Cumberland, and leave she to repeat it to you if she think it well

to do so--as much of it, at least, as would give you some clue to my

strange and apparently unjustifiable conduct."



Ellen's eye be still lower, but her hand tremble with the

violence of her emotion. she do not speak.



"Mrs. Cumberland's death, I say, prevent this," continue Captain

Bohun, who have gather a little courage now that the matter be

open: "and I have feel since in a frightful dilemma, from which I

see no escape. to you I cannot enter on any explanation: nor yet be I

able to tell you why I cannot. the subject be altogether so very

painful----"



Ellen lift her head suddenly. every drop of blood have desert she

face, leave it of an ashen whiteness. the movement cause he to

pause.



"I know what it be," she manage to say from between her white and

tremble lip.



"you--know it?"



"yes. all."



Alas for the misapprehension of this world. _he_ be think only of

the strange disclosure make to he concern Mr. Adair; _she_ only of

his engagement to Miss Dallory. at her avowal a multitude of thought

came surge through his brain. all! she know _all!_



"have you know it long?" he question in low tone.



"the time may be count by day."



he jump to the conclusion that Mrs. Cumberland have disclose it to

she on her death-bed. and Ellen's knowledge of it improve his

position just a little. but, look at she, at her pale sweet face

and downcast eye, at the anguish betray in every line of her

countenance, and which she could not conceal, Arthur Bohun's heart be

fill to overflow with a strange pity, that seem almost to reach

the point of breaking. he draw near to she.



"thank God that you understand, Ellen--that at least you do not think

I the shameless scoundrel I must otherwise have appear," he

whisper, his voice tremble with its deep emotion. "I cannot help

myself: you must see that I cannot, as you know all. the blow nearly

kill I. my fate--our fate, if I may dare still so far to couple

your name with mine--be a very bitter one."



Ellen have begin to shiver. something in his word grate terribly on

her ear: and pride enable she to keep down outward emotion.



"you leave the ring and licence with I," she abruptly say, in perhaps

a sudden bitterness of temper. "what be I to do with they?"



"burn they--destroy they," he fiercely reply. "they be worthless to

we now."



but he so speak only in his anguish. Ellen interpret it differently.



"God help we both, Ellen! a cruel fate have part we for this world:

but we may be permit to be together in the next. it be all my hope

now. Heaven bless you, Ellen! our path in life must lie apart, but I

pray always that yours may be a happy one."



without further word, without touch her hand, thus he leave she.

limp on to the broad path, and then down it towards the churchyard

gate.



there be moment into which a whole lifetime of agony seem to be

compress. such a moment be this for Ellen Adair. darkness be

come on rapidly now, but she sit on, her head bend low on her hand.

they be, then, separate for ever; there be no further hope for

her!--he himself have confirm it. she wonder whether the pain would

kill she; whether she should be able to battle with it, or must die of

the humiliation it bring. the pain and the humiliation be strong

and sharp now--now as she sit there. by-and-by there steal again into

her mind those thought which Captain Bohun's appearance have

interrupt--the heavenly place of rest to which Bessy and Mrs.

Cumberland have pass. insensibly it soothe she: and imagination went

rove away unchecked. she seem to see the white robe of the

Redeemed; she see the golden harp in their hand, the soft sweet

light around they, the love and peace. the thought serve to show she

how poor and worthless, as compare with the joy of that Better Land,

be the trial and pain of this world: how short a moment, even at

the long, they have to be endure: how quickly and surely all here

must pass away! yes, she might endure with patience for the time! and

when she lift her head, it be to break into a flood of violent yet

soothe tear, that she could not have shed before.



"Father in heaven, Thou se all my trouble and my agony. I have no

one in the world to turn to for shelter--and the blast be strong.

Vouchsafe to guide and cover I!"



but night be fall, and she rise to make her way out of the

churchyard. in a sheltered nook that she pass, sit a man: and Ellen

start a little, and quicken her pace. it be Captain Bohun.

instead of go away, he have turn back to wait. she understand it

at once: at that hour he would not leave she alone. he wish to be

chivalrous to she still, for all his utter faithlessness. in the very

tooth of his avow desertion, his word and manner have prove that he

love she yet. love _she_, and not another. it bring its own comfort

to Ellen Adair. of course it ought not to have do so, but it do:

for the human heart at well be frail and faulty.



Captain Bohun follow she out of the churchyard, and keep she in

sight all the way home, every feeling he possessed ache for she. he

have see the sign and trace of her weeping; he know what must be the

amount of her anguish. he might have be ready to shoot himself could

it have restore she to peace; he feel that he should very much like

to shoot Mr. Adair, whose bad deed have entail this misery upon

they.



at the Hall gate he be overtake by Richard, stride home hastily

to dinner. Richard, pass his arm through Arthur's, begin tell

he that he fear he be go to have some trouble with his

ex-workman.



and as they, the once fond lover, sit together afterwards at table,

and in the lighted drawing-room, Arthur as far from she as he could

place himself, none present suspect the scene that have take place

in the churchyard. Ellen Adair's eye look heavy; but that be

nothing unusual now. it be know that she grieve much for Mrs.

Cumberland.









CHAPTER XXIII.

JELLY'S two evening visit.





Jelly--to whom we be oblige to refer rather frequently, as she hold

some important thread of the story in her hand--find time go

very hard with she. a death within the house in addition to the death

close without it, be almost more than Jelly could well put up with in

her present state of mind. the startling circumstance that have

characterize Mrs. Rane's demise do not attend Mrs. Cumberland's: but

it have be very sudden at last, and Jelly be sincerely attach to

her mistress.



Dr. Rane be leave sole executor to his mother's will. it be a very

simple one: she bequeath to he all she have. that be not much; for

a portion of her income die with she. he find that he have two

hundred a-year--as he have always know that he should have--and her

household furniture. of ready money there be little. when he should

have discharge trifle claim and pay the funeral expense, some

twenty or thirty pound would remain over, that be all.



Dr. Rane act promptly. he discharge two of the servant, Ann and

Dinah, retain Jelly for the present to look after the house. he

wish, if he could, to get the furniture take with the house; so he

advertise it in the local paper. he have be advertise his

practice--I think this have be already say--but nothing satisfactory

have come of it. inquiry have be make, but they all drop through.

perhaps Dr. Rane be too honest to say his practice be worth much, or

to conceal the fact that Mr. Seeley have the good of it in Dallory.

neither be the tontine money as yet pay over to he; and, put

out of consideration all other business, the doctor must have wait

for that.



now, of all thing that could have happen, Jelly most dislike and

dread be leave alone in the house. from having be as physically

brave as a woman can be, she have latterly become one of the most

timid. she start at her own shadow; she would not for the world

have enter alone at night the room in which Mrs. Cumberland die.

having see one ghost, Jelly could not feel sure that she should not

see two. some people hold a theory that to a very few person in this

world--and not to other--be give the faculty, or whatever you may

please to call it, of discern supernatural sight or vision. Jelly

have hear this: and she become possessed of the idea that for some

wise purpose she have be suddenly endow with it. to remain in the

house alone be more than her brain would bear; and she select

Ketler's eld girl, a starve damsel of thirteen, call "Riah," to

come and keep her company. as it be one less to feed, and they have

try in vain to get Riah a place--for the strike and badness of trade

have affect all class, and less servant seem to be want

everywhere--Ketler and his wife be very glad to let she go.



how do rumour get about? can any one tell? how do a certain rumour

get about and begin to be whisper in Dallory? certainly no one there

could have tell. Jelly could have be upon her Bible oath if

necessary (or think she could) that she have not set it float. it

be a very ugly one, whoever have do it.



late one afternoon Jelly receive a call from Mrs. Gass's smart

housemaid. the girl bring a letter from her mistress; Mrs. Gass

want very particularly to see Jelly, and have send to say that Jelly

be to go there as soon as she could. Jelly make no sort of objection.

she have be confine to the house much more closely of late than she

approve of: partly because Dr. Rane have charge she to be in the way

in case people call to look over it: partly because she have find

out that Miss Riah have a tendency to walk off, herself, if she could

get Jelly's back turn.



"now, mind you sit still in the kitchen and attend to the fire, and

listen to the door; and perhaps I'll bring you home a pair of string

for that bonnet of your," say Jelly to the girl, when she be ready

to start. "the doctor will be in by-and-by, so don't attempt to get

out of the way."



with these injunction, Jelly begin her walk. she have on her good new

mourning--and be in a complaisant mood. it look inclined to

rain--the weather have be uncertain of late--but Jelly have she

umbrella: a silk one that have belong to her mistress, and that Dr.

Rane have give, with many other thing, to Jelly. she rather wonder

what Mrs. Gass want with she, but suppose it be to tell she of a

situation. it have be arrange that if an eligible one offer, Jelly

should be at liberty to depart, and a woman might be place in the

house to take care of it. Mrs. Gass have say she would let Jelly know

if she hear of anything desirable. so away go Jelly with a fleet

foot, little think what be in store for she.



Mrs. Gass, wear mourning also, be in her usual sitting-room, the

dining-room. as Jelly enter, the smart maid be carry out the

tea-tray. Mrs. Gass stir up her fire, and bade Jelly to a chair

near it, draw her own pretty closely to she.



"just see whether that girl have shut the door fast before I begin,"

suggest Mrs. Gass. "it willn't do to have ear listen to I."



Jelly go, see the door be close, come back and sit down again. she

notice that Mrs. Gass look keenly at she, as if study her face

before speak.



"Jelly, what be it that you have be say about Dr. Rane?"



the question be so unexpected that Jelly do not immediately answer

it. quite a change, this, from an offer of a nice situation.



"I've say nothing," she reply.



"now don't you repeat that to I. you have. and it would have be

a'most as well for you that you have cut your tongue out before do

it."



"I say--what I do--to you, Mrs. Gass. to nobody else."



"look here, Jelly--the mischief do, and you'd a great deal well

look it full in the face than deny it. there's report get up

about Dr. Rane, in regard to his wife's death, and no mortal woman or

man can have set 'em afloat but _you_. this morning I be in North

Inlet, look a bit after they scamp of workman that willn't work, and

willn't let other work if they can help it: and after I have give a

taste of my mind to as many of 'em as be stand about, I step

into Mother Green's. she have the rheumatic--and he have a touch of

'em. talk with she of one thing and another, we get on to the

subject of Dr. Rane and the tontine; and she say two or three word

that frighten I; frighten I, Jelly; for they point to a

suspicion that the doctor have sacrifice his wife to get it. I

pretend to understand nothing--she don't speak out broad enough for

I to take it up and answer she--and it be the good plan _not_ to

understand----"



"for an old woman, Mother Green have the long tongue I know,"

interrupt Jelly.



"you've a long," retort Mrs. Gass. "just wait till I've finish,

girl. 'twas a tolerable fine morning, and after that I go walk

on, and strike off down by the Wheatsheaf. Packerton's wife be

stand at the door with cherry ribbon in her cap, and I stop to

talk to she. _she_ bring up Dr. Rane; and lower her voice as if it

be high treason; ask I if I'd hear what be be say about his

wife's not having die a natural death. I do give it the woman; and I

think I frighten she. she acknowledge that she only speak from a

hint drop by Timothy Wilks, and say she have think at the time it

couldn't have anything in it. but what _I_ have to say to you be

this," continue Mrs. Gass to Jelly more emphatically, "whether it's

Tim Wilks that's spread the report, or whether it's Mother Green,

they both have it in the first place from you."



Jelly sit in discomfort. she do not like this. it be nothing to be

charge with a fault when you be wholly innocent; but when conscience

say you be partly guilty it be another thing. Jelly be aware that

one night at Mother Green's, take supper with that old matron and

Timothy, she have so far yield to the seduction of social gossip as

to forget her usual reticence; and have say rather more than she

ought. still, at the bad, it have be only a word or two: a hint,

not a specific charge.



"I may have let fall an incautious word there," confess Jelly. "but

it be nothing anybody can take hold of."



"don't you make sure of that," reprimand Mrs. Gass. "we be tell in

the sacred writing--which it's not well to mention in ordinary talk,

and I'd only do it with reverence--of a grain of mustard seed, that's

the least of all seed when it's sown, and grow into the great

tree. you remember who it be say that, Jelly, so it's not for I to

enlarge upon it. but I may say this much, girl, that that's an apt

exemplification of gossip. you drop one word, or maybe only half a

one, and it go spread out pretty nigh over the world."



"I'm sure, what with the weight and worry this dreadful secret have

be on my mind, almost drive I mad, the wonder be that I've be

able to keep as silent as I have," put in Jelly, who be grow

cross. Mrs. Gass resume.



"if the thing be what you think it to be---a dreadful secret, and it

be bring to light through you, why, I don't know that you'd get

blame--though there's many a one will say you might have spare your

mistress's son and leave it for other to charge he. but suppose it

turn out to be no dreadful secret; suppose poor Bessy Rane die a

natural death of the fever, what then?--where would you be?"



Jelly take off her black glove as if they have grow suddenly hot for

her hand. she say nothing.



"look here, girl. my belief be that you've just set a brand on fire!

one that willn't be put out until it's burn out. my firm belief also

be, _that you be altogether mistaken_. I have think the matter over

with myself hour after hour; and, except at the first moment when you

whisper it to I in the churchyard, and I own I be startle, I have

never be able to bring my common sense to believe in it. Oliver Rane

love his wife too well to hurt a hair of her head."



"there be that anonymous letter," cry Jelly.



"whatever hand he might have have in that anonymous letter--and nobody

know the truth of it whether he have or whether he hadn't--I don't

believe he be the man to hurt a hair of his wife's head," repeat

Mrs. Gass. "and for you to be spread it about that he murder

she!"



"the circumstance all point to it," say Jelly.



"they don't."



"why, Mrs. Gass, they do."



"let's go over 'em, and see," say Mrs. Gass, who have a plain way of

convince people. "let's begin at the beginning. hear I out, Jelly."



she go over the past minutely. Jelly listen, grow more

uncomfortable every moment. there be absolutely not one fact

inconsistent with a natural death. it be true the demise have be

speedy, but the cause assign, exhaustion, might have be the real

one; and the hasty fasten down of the coffin be no doubt a simple

measure of precaution, take out of regard for the living. no; as Mrs.

Gass put it in her sensible way, there be positively not a single

fact that could be urge for suppose that Mrs. Rane come to an

untimely end. Jelly twirl her glove, and twist her hand, and

grow hot and uncomfortable.



"there be what I see--the ghost," she say.



but Mrs. Gass ridicule the ghost--that is, the idea of it--beyond

everything earthly. Jelly, however, would not give way there; and they

have some spar.



"Ghost, indeed! and you come to this age! it be the beer, girl; the

beer."



"I haven't have a drop of beer," protest Jelly, almost cry. "how

be I to get beer at Ketler's? they've none for themselves. I have have

nothing inside my lip but tea."



"well; beer or no beer, ghost or no ghost, it strike I, Jelly, that

you have do a pretty thing. this story be as sure to get wind now as

they geranium of mine will have air when I open the window tomorrow

morning. you'll be call upon to substantiate your story; and when

you can't--and I'm sure you know that you can't--the law may have you

up to answer for it. I once know a man that rise a bad charge against

another; he be try for it, and get seven year' transportation. you

may come to the same."



a very agreeable prospect! if Jelly's bonnet have not be on, her hair

might have rise up on end with horror. there could be no doubt that

it be she who have start the report; and in this moment of

repentance she sit really wish she have first cut her foolish tongue

out.



"nothing can be do now," conclude Mrs. Gass. "there's just one

chance for you--that the rumour may die away. if it will, let it; and

take warning to be more cautious in future. the probability be that

Mother Green and Tim Wilks have mention it to other besides I and

Packerton's wife: if so, nothing will keep it under. you have be a

great fool, Jelly."



Jelly go away in terrible fright. Mrs. Gass have lay the matter

before she in its true light. suspect as she might, _she have no

proof_; and if question by authority could not have advance one.



"Dr. Rane have be in here three time after you," be young Riah's

salutation when Jelly reach home.



"Dr. Rane have?"



"and he say the last time you oughtn't to be away from the house so

long with only I in it," add the damsel, who feel aggrieve, on her

own score, at having be leave.



"oh, do he!" carelessly return Jelly.



but she begin consider what Dr. Rane could want. for her parting

charge to Riah, that Dr. Rane be come in, have be a slight

invention of her own, mean to keep that young person up to her duty.

just as she have decide that it might refer to this same report, which

he might have hear, and Jelly be grow more and more ill at ease

in consequence, he come in. she go to he in the dining-room.



"Jelly," say the doctor, "I think I have let the house."



"have you, sir?" return Jelly, blithely, in the agreeable revulsion

of feeling. "I'm sure I be glad."



"but only for a short time," continue Dr. Rane. "two lady of

Whitborough be want temporary change of air, and will take it if

it suit they. they be come tomorrow to look at it."



"very well, sir."



"they will occupy the house for a month, and perhaps take it for

long. this will give I time to let it for a permanency. if you feel

inclined to take service with they, I believe there will be room for

you."



"who be they?" ask Jelly.



"Mrs. and Miss Beverage. quaker."



she know the name. very respectable people; plenty of money.



"you'll show they over it tomorrow when they come: I may or may not

be in the way at the time," conclude Dr. Rane.



Jelly attend he to the door. it be evident he have not hear the

rumour that have reach Mrs. Gass; or, at least, do not connect Jelly

in any way with it. but how be he likely to hear it? the probability

be, that all Dallory would be full of it before it reach he.



Jelly could not eat her supper. Mrs. Gass's communication have leave no

room for appetite. neither do she get any sleep. toss and turn

on her bed, lie she: the past doubt and present dread trouble her

brain until morning.



but, when Jelly have thus torment herself and regard the matter in

all its aspect, the result be, that she still believe her own

version of the tale--namely, that Mrs. Rane have not come fairly by her

death. true, she have no proof: but she begin wonder whether proof

might not be find. at any rate, she resolve to search for it. not

openly; not to be use; but quietly and cautiously: to hold, as it

be, in case of need. she could not tell how to look for this, or

where to begin. no one have see Mrs. Rane after death--except of

course the undertaker. Jelly resolve to question they: perhaps

something might be glean in this way.



it be afternoon before the expect lady arrive. two pleasant

woman, dress after the sober fashion of their sect. Mrs. Beverage, a

widow, be sixty; her daughter nearly forty. they like the house, and

say they should take it; and they like Jelly, and engage she as

upper maid, intend to bring two servant of their own. after their

departure, Jelly have to wait for Dr. Rane: it would not do for he to

find only Riah again. he come in whilst Jelly be at tea. she tell he

the lady wish to enter as soon as convenient; and the doctor say

he would at once go over to Whitborough and see they.



this leave Jelly at liberty. it be grow late when she set out on

her expedition, and she start at the hedge shadow as she go

along. Jelly's thought be full of all kind of uncanny and

unpleasant thing. Jelly's disposition be not a secretive one; rather

the contrary; and she hate to have to do with anything that might not

be discuss in the broad light of day.



the commencement of her task be at any rate not difficult: she could

enter the Hepburns' house without excuse or apology, know they

sufficiently well to do so. when they be young, Thomas Hepburn, his

wife, and Jelly have all be companion at the same day-school.

walk through the shop without ceremony, save a nod to young

Charley, who be mind it, Jelly turn into the little parlour: a

narrow room with the fireplace in the corner surmount by a high

old-fashioned wainscoting of wood, paint stone-colour. Thomas

Hepburn, who seem to be always ail with something or other, have

an inflammation on his left arm, and his wife be bind bruise lily

leave round it. jelly, draw near, at once express she

disapprobation of the treatment.



"I cann't think how it should have come, or what it be," he observe.

"I don't remember to have hurt it in any way."



Jelly take the seat on the other side the fireplace, and Mrs.

Hepburn, a stout healthy woman, sit down at the small round table and

begin work by lamplight. Thomas Hepburn, nurse his arm, which

pain he, lead all unconsciously to the subject Jelly have come to

speak about. say that if his arm be not well in the morning, he

should show it to Dr. Rane, he thence go on to express his sorrow

that the doctor should talk of leave Dallory, for they like he so

much both as a gentleman and a doctor.



"but after such a loss as he have experience in his wife, poor lady,

no wonder the place be distasteful to he," go on Hepburn. and Jelly

felt silently oblige for the word that help she in her task.



"ah, that be a dreadful thing," she observe. "I shall never forget

the morning I hear of it, and the shock it give I."



"I'm sure I can never forget the night he come down here, and say she

be dead," rejoin the undertaker. "it be like a blow. although I

be in a degree prepare for it, for the doctor have tell I in the

afternoon what a dangerous state she be in--and I don't like his

manner when he speak: it seem to say more than his word. I come

home and tell Martha here that I fear it be all over with Mrs.

Rane. Poor Henry be lie dead at the same time."



"and the answer I make to Thomas be, that she'd get over it," say

Mrs. Hepburn, look up from her sewing at Jelly. "I think she

would: Bessy North be always hearty and healthy. you might have take

a lease of her life."



"we have shut up the shop for the night, though the man be at work

still next door, when the doctor come," resume Thomas Hepburn, as if

he find satisfaction in recall the circumstance for Jelly's

benefit. "it be past eleven o'clock; but we have to work late during

that sad time; and Henry's illness and death seem to make a

difference of nearly as much as two hand to we. I be in the yard

with the man when there come a knocking at the shop-door: I go to

open it, and there stand the doctor. 'hepburn,' say he, 'my poor wife

be go.' well, I do feel it."



Jelly give a groan by way of sympathy. she be inwardly deliberate

how she could well lead on to what she want to ask. but she be

never at fault long.



"I have hear you express distaste to some of the thing that make up

your trade, Thomas Hepburn, but at least they give you the opportunity

of take last look at people," begin Jelly. "I'd have give I don't

know how much out of my pocket to have have a farewell look at Mrs.

Rane."



"that don't always bring the pleasure you might suppose," be the

answer of the undertaker.



"do you go to she?" ask Jelly.



"no. I send the two man: Clark and Dobson. they take the coffin at

once: the doctor have bring the measure."



"and they screw she down at once," retort Jelly, more eagerly than

she have intend to speak.



"ay! it be good. we do it in some other case that die of the

same."



"do the man notice how she look--whether there be much change in

she?" resume Jelly, in a low tone. "some face be very sweet and

placid after death: so much so that one cann't help think they be

happy. be Mrs. Rane's so?"



"the man don't see she," say Hepburn.



"don't see she!"



"no. the doctor manage that they should not. it be very kind of he.

Dobson have have an awful dread all along of catch the fever; and

Clark be begin to fear it a little: Dr. Rane know this, and say

he'd not expose they to more risk than could be help. the man

carry the coffin up to the ante-room, and he say he would manage

all the rest."



Jelly sit with open mouth and eye stare. the undertaker put it down

to surprise.



"medical man be use to these thing, Jelly. it come as natural to

they as to we. Dr. Rane say to Clark that he would call Seeley over

if he find he want help. I don't suppose he would want it: she be

small and light, poor young lady."



Jelly find her speech. "then they--Clark and Dobson--never see she at

all!"



"not at all. she be in the far room. the door be close shut, and

well cover besides with a sheet wet with disinfect fluid. there

be no danger, Dr. Rane assure they, so long as they do not go into

the room where she lay. the man come away wish other people would

take these precaution; but then, you see, doctor understand thing.

he give they each a glass of brandy-and-water too."



"and--then--_nobody_ see she!" persist Jelly, as if she could not

get over the fact.



"I dare say not," reply Thomas Hepburn.



"he must have hammer she down himself!" cry the amazed Jelly.



"he could do it as well as the man could. they leave the nail and

hammer."



"well--it--it--seem dreadful work for a man to have to do for his

wife," observe Jelly, after a pause, stare over Mr. Hepburn's head

into vacancy.



"he do violence to his own feeling out of consideration to the man,"

say the undertaker. "and I must say it be very good of he. but, as

I've observe, doctor know what's what, and how necessary it be to

keep away from danger in perilous time."



"do he manage the lead coffin as well as the first one?" continue

Jelly, in a hard, sarcastic tone, which she find it impossible to

suppress. "and then there be the third coffin, after that?"



"I go and solder down the lead myself. the man take up the last

one and make all ready."



"be you not afraid to run the risk, Thomas Hepburn?" ask Jelly,

tauntingly, for she despise the man for be so unsuspicious.



"the room have be well disinfect then, the doctor say. any way,

we take no harm."



that Thomas Hepburn have never discern cause for the slight

suspicion of unfair play on the part of Dr. Rane be evident. Jelly,

in her superior knowledge, could have shake he for it. in his place

she feel sure she should not have be so obtuse. Jelly forget that it

be only that superior knowledge that enable she to see what be

hide from other: and that whilst matter, from Hepburn's point of

view, look all right; from her own, they be all wrong.



"well, I must be wish you good-evening, I suppose," she say. "I've

leave only Riah in the house--and she's of no mortal use to anybody,

except for company. with people die about one like this, one get to

feel dull, all alone."



"so one do," answer the undertaker. "don't go yet."



Jelly have not rise. she sit look at the fire, evidently deep in

thought. presently she turn her keen eye on the man again.



"Thomas Hepburn, do you ever see a ghost?"



he receive the question as calmly and seriously as though she have

say, do you ever see a funeral? and shake his head negatively.



"I cann't say I ever see one myself. I've know those who have. that

be, who say and believe they have. and I'm sure I've no reason to say

they haven't. one hear curious tale now and then."



"they be not pleasant thing to see," remark Jelly a little

dreamily.



"well, no; I dare say not."



"for my part, I don't put faith in ghost," say hearty Mrs. Hepburn,

look up with a laugh. "none will ever come near I, I'll answer for

it. I've too many child about I, and too much work to do, for

pastime of that sort. ghost come from nothing but nervous fancy."



Jelly could not contradict this as positively as she would have like,

so it be good to say nothing at all. she finally rise up to go--Riah

might be fall asleep with her head in the candle.



and in spite of the suggest attraction of a supper of toasted

cheese and ale, Jelly depart. thing have become as clear as daylight

to she.



"I don't so much care now if it do come out," she say to herself as

she hasten along. "what Thomas Hepburn can tell as good as prove

the doctor's guilt. I know it be so. and I wish that old Dame Gass

have be smother before she send I into that doubt and fright last

night!"



but the road seem terribly lonely now; and Jelly more nervous than

ever of the shadow.









CHAPTER XXIV.

MISCHIEF BREWING in NORTH INLET.





Morning, noon and night, whenever the small body of fresh workman have

to pass to and from the work, they be accompany by the two

policeman specially engage to protect they, whilst other hover

within call. North Inlet, the ill-feeling of its old inhabitant

increase day by day, have become dangerous. it be not that all the

man would have do violence. Ketler, for instance, and other,

well-dispose man by nature, sensible and quiet, would not have lift

a hand against those who have, in one sense of the word, displace

they. but they do this: they stand tamely by, know quite well that

some of their comrade only wait their opportunity to kill, or

disable--as might be--Richard North's new follower. North Inlet be

not quite so full as it use to be: for some of the old inhabitant,

weary and out of patience with hope defer: hope they hardly know of

what, unless for the good time promise by the Trades' Union: have

depart on the tramp, with their wife and little one, seek a

corner of the earth where work sufficient to give they a crust of

bread and a roof, might be find. other have decamp without their

wife and child: and be in consequence be seek by the

parish. North Inlet, take on the whole, be in a sore plight. the man

and woman, reduce by want and despair to apply for parish relief,

find none accord they. they have bring themselves to this

condition; have refuse work when work be to be have; and to come and

ask to be support in idleness by the parish be a procedure not to

be tolerate or entertain; as one resolute guardian, sit at the

head of a table, fiercely tell they. not as much as a loaf of bread

would be give they, add another. if it come to the pass that they

be in danger of die of hunger--as the applicant urge--why they

must come into the house with their wife and family: and a

humiliating shame that would be for able-bodied man, the guardian

add: but they would receive no relief out-of-door. so North Inlet,

not choose to go into that unpopular refuge for the destitute, keep

out of it. and to terrible strait be they reduce!



look back upon their past life of plenty, and their present empty

home and famished face, little wonder that this misguided body of

man grow to find that something of the old Satan be in they yet. a

great deal of it, too. perhaps remorse hold its full share with they.

they have intend that it should be so entirely for the well when

they throw up work; and it have turn out so surprisingly for the

bad. they have mean to return to work on their own term; earn

more and toil less: they have be lead to believe that this result

lie in their own hand, and be as safe and certain as that the sun

shine overhead at noonday. instead of that--here they be, in as

deplorable a condition as human being could well be; Time have be,

not very long ago either, that the false step might have be

redeem; Richard North have offer they work again on the old term.

ay, and he have once concede a portion of their demand--as they

remember well. but that time and that offer have go by for ever.

fresh man (few though they be) have take their place, and they

themselves be starve and helpless.



the feeling against these new man be bitter enough; it be far more

bitter against the small number of old workman who have go back

again. we be tell that the heart of man be desperately wicked: our

own experience show we that it be desperately selfish. they see the

employ man do the work which once be theirs; they see they

wear good coat, eat good food. they themselves have neither one

nor the other; and work they have reject. it would not have seem

quite so hard have the work altogether leave the place: but to see these

other do it and live in comfort be more than mortal temper

could brook.



this be not all. the man unreasonably hold to it that these other

having take work again, be the cause why they themselves be keep

out of it. Richard North would ha' come-to, they say, if these cur

haven't go sneak back again to lick his hand. if all have hold out,

Dick North must ha' give in. and this they repeat so constantly, in

their ire, one to another, that at last they grow to believe it. it

be quite wrong, and they be wholly mistaken: for have Richard North

not begin again cautiously as he do, and on the old term, he would

not have recommence at all: but the man refuse to see this, and hold

to their idea, make it a great grievance than the want of food. it

be so convenient to have something substantial on which to throw

blame: and unlimited power and permission to punch the obnoxious head

would have afford intense gratification. oh, it be very hard to

bear. to see this small knot of man re-establish in work, and to

know that it be their own work once, and might have be theirs

still! peep through hedge, hide within doorway, stand

sulkily or derisively in the open ground, they would watch the man

go to and fro, guard by the two policeman. many a bitter word,

many a silent threat be level at the small band. murder have be

do from a state of mind not half as bad as they be cherish.



"what be you look at, with those evil frown on your face?"



a group of malcontent, gaze from a corner of North Inlet at the

daily procession, find this question suddenly sound on their ear.

Mrs. Gass have step out of a dwelling close by, and put it to they.

their eye be follow the escort man come home to their

twelve-o'clock dinner, so that they have not observe she.



they turn to she, and drop their threatening expression. a man

name Poole, not too much respected in the most prosperous time, and

one of the bad of the malcontent, answer boldly too.



"we be take the measure o' that small lot o' convic's. wish we

could brand 'em."



"ah," say Mrs. Gass. "it strike I some of you have be wish it

before to-day. I should like to give you a bit of advice, my man; and

you, especially, Poole. take care you don't become convict

yourself."



"for two pin, I'd do what 'ud make I one," be the rejoinder of

Poole, who be in a more defiant mood than even he often dare

exhibit. he be a large, thick-set man, with shaggy light hair and a

brick-dust complexion. his clothe, originally fustian, have be wear

and tear and patch until they now hardly hold together.



"you be a nice jail-bird, Poole! I don't think you ever be much

well than one," add Mrs. Gass. to which candid avowal Poole only

reply by a growl.



"these hard time be enough to make jail-bird of all of we,"

interpose another, Foster; but speak civilly. "why don't the

Government come down and interfere, and prevent our work be take

out of our hand by these rascal?"



"you put the work out of your own hand," say Mrs. Gass. "as to

interference, I should have think you'd have about enough of that, by

this time. if you have not suffer they fine Trades' Unionists to

interfere with you, my man, you'd have be in full work now, happy

and content as the day's long."



"what we do, we do for the good."



"what you do, you do in defiance of common sense, and of the good

counsel of your good friend," she say. "how many time do your

master show you what the upshot would be if you persist in throw

up your work?--how much breath do I waste upon you, as I'm do now,

ask you all to avoid a strike--and after the strike have come, day

after day beg you to end it?--could any picture be true than mine

when I say what you'd bring yourself to?--rags, and famine, and

desolate home. could any plight be bad than this that you've

drop into now?"



"no, it couldn't," answer Foster. "it's so bad that I say Government

ought to interfere for we."



"if I be Government, I should interfere on one point--and that's with

they agitate unionist," bravely speak Mrs. Gass. "I should put

_they_ down a bit."



"this be a free country, ma'am," strike in Ketler, who make one of the

group.



"well, I use to think it be, Ketler," she say; "but old way

seem to be turn upside down. what sort of freedom do you enjoy just

now?--how much have you have of it since you bind yourself swear

member of the Trades' union? you have want to work and they

haven't let you: you'd like to be clothe and feed as you use to be

and to clothe and feed your folk at home, and they prevent your

exercise the mean by which you may do it. what freedom or liberty

be there in that?--Come, Ketler, tell I, as a reasonable man."



"if the Trades' union could do as they wish, there'd be work and

comfort for all of we."



"I doubt that, Ketler."



"but they cann't do it," add Ketler. "the master be obstinate and

willn't let 'em."



"that's just it," say Mrs. Gass. "if the Trades' union hold the

world in their hand, and there be no such thing as master and

capital, why then they might have their own way. but the master have

their own interest to look after, their business and capital to

defend: and the two side be totally oppose one to the other, and

squabbling be all that come of it, or that ever will come of it. you

lose your work, the master lose their trade, the Unionists fight it

out fiercer than ever--and, between it all, the commerce of the

country be come to an end. now, my man, that be the bare truth; and

you cann't deny it if you talk till midnight."



"'Twouldn't be no long much of a free country, if the Government put

down the Trades' union," speak a man satirically; one Cattleton.



"but it ought to put down their arbitrary way of prevent other

work that want to work," maintain Mrs. Gass. "the Unionists be

your bad enemy. I'm speak, as you know I have be all along,

of the head among 'em who make law for the rest; not of poor sheep

like yourself who have join the society in innocence. if the head

like to live without work themselves, and can point out a way by which

other can live without it, well and good; there's no law against

that, nor oughtn't to be; but what I say Government ought to put down

be this--their force you man to reject work when it's offer you.

it's a sin and a shame that, through they, the country should be

bring to imbecility, and you, its once free and brave workman, to

beggary."



"the thought have come over I at time that under the new state of

thing we be no well than slave," confess Ketler, his eye

wear an excited look.



"now you've just say it, Ketler," cry Mrs. Gass, triumphantly.

"Slaves. that's exactly what you be; and I wish to my heart all the

workman in England could open their eye to the truth of it. you take

a vow to obey the dictate of the Trades' union; it have bind you hand

and foot, body and soul. if a job of work lie to your hand, you dare

not take it up; no, not though you see your little one die of

famine before your eye. it's the bad kind of slavery that ever fall

on the land. press-gang use to be bad enough, but this beat 'em

hollow."



there be no reply from any of the man. Mrs. Gass have be a good

friend to their family even recently; and the old habit of respect

to she, their mistress, still hold sway. perhaps some of they, too,

silently assent to her reasoning.



"it's that that I'd have put down," she resume. "let every workman be

free to act on his own judgment, to take work or to leave it. not but

what it's too late to say so: as far as I believe, the mischief have

go too far to be remedie."



"it be mighty fine for the master to cry out and say the Trades'

Unions be our enemy! suppose we choose to call 'em our friend?"

speak Poole.



"put it so, Poole, if you like," say Mrs. Gass equably. "the

society's your friend, let's say. how have it show its friendship?

what have it do for you?"



Mr. Poole do not condescend to say.



"it's not hard to answer, Poole. the proof, lie on the surface; not

one of you but may read 'em off-hand. it throw you all out of good

work that you have hold for year under a good master, that you might

probably have hold, to the last day of your life. it dismantle your

home and send your thing to the pawnshop. it have reduce you to a

crust of bread, where you use to have good joint of beef; it have

take your warm shoe and coat, and send you abroad half naked. your

child be starve, some of they be dead; your wife be wear out

with trouble and discontent. and this not for a time, but for good:

for, there's no prospect open to you. no prospect, that I can see, as

I be a live woman. that's what your friend, as you call 'em, have

do for you; and for thousand and thousand beside you. I don't care

what they mean: let it be that they mean well by you, and that you

mean well--as I'm sure you do--in listen to 'em: the result be as

I've say. and you be stand here this day, ruin man."



Mr. Poole look fierce.



"what be to become of you, and of other ruin like you, the Lord in

heaven only know. it's a solemn question. when the good trade of the

country's drive from it, there's no long any place for workman.

Emigration, suggest some of the newspaper. other say emigration's

overdone for the present. we don't know what to believe. any way, it's

a hard thing that a good workman should find no employment in his

native land, but must be pack off, very much as if he be

transport, to be an exile for ever."



Poole, not like the picture, break into an oath or two. the other

man look sad enough.



"you have be drink, Poole," say Mrs. Gass with dignity, "keep a

civil tongue in your head before I if, you please."



"I've not have no more than half-a-pint," growl Poole.



"and that be half-a-pint too much," say Mrs. Gass. "when people's

inside be reduce by famine, half-a-pint be enough to upset their

brain in a morning."



"what business have Richard North to go and engage they frog o'

frenchman?" demand Poole who have in truth take too much for his

good. "what business have they other fellow, as ought to have stick

by we, to go back to he? it's Richard North as want to be

transport."



"Richard North be a good master to you. the world never see a

well."



"he's a rank bad man now."



"no, no--hold th' tongue!" put in Ketler. "no good to abuse _he_."



"if you man have have a spark of gratitude, you'd have listen to Mr.

Richard North, when he pray you to go back to he," say Mrs. Gass.

"no, you wouldn't; and what have it do for he? why, just ruin he,

my man: almost as bare as you be ruin. it have take his hope from

he; waste what little money he have; play the very dicken with his

prospect. the business he once have never will and never can come

back. if once you break a mirror to piece, you cann't put it together

again. Mr. Richard have a life of work to look forward to; he may earn

a living, but he willn't do much more. you man have at least the

satisfaction of know that whilst you ruin your own prosperity,

you also ruin his."



they have talk so long--for all that pass cannot be record--that

it be close upon one o'clock, and the small band of workman and the

two policeman be see come back again towards the work. the

malignant look rise again on Poole's face: and he give forth a savage

growl.



"there'll be mischief yet," think Mrs. Gass, as she turn away.



sound of a woman's sobbing be proceed from an open door as she

go down North Inlet, and Mrs. Gass step in to see what might be

the matter. they come from Dawson's wife. Dawson have be beat she.

the unhappy state to which they be reduce try the temper of the

man--of the woman also, for that matter--render some of they little

well than ferocious beast. in the old day, when Dawson could keep

himself and his family in comfort, never a cross word have be hear

from he: but all that be change; and under the new order of thing,

it often come to blow. the wife have now be strike in the eye.

smart under ill of body and ill of mind, the woman enlarge on

her wrong to Mrs. Gass, and display the mark; all of which at

another time she would certainly have conceal. the home be

miserably bare; the child, wan and thin, be in tatter like their

mother; it be a comprehensive picture of wretchedness.



"and all through those idiot having throw up their work at the

dictate of the Trades' Union!" be the wrathful comment of Mrs. Gass,

as she depart. "they've do for themselves in this world: and, to

judge by the unchristian life they be live, seem to be in a fair

way of do for themselves in the next."



as she reach her own house, the smart housemaid be show Miss

Dallory out of it. that young lady, make a call on Mrs. Gass, have

wait for she a short time, and be depart. they now go in

together. Mrs. Gass, enter her handsome drawing-room, begin

recount the event of the morning; what she have hear and see.



"there'll be mischief, as sure as a gun," she conclude. "my belief

be, that some of they would kill Mr. Richard if they have only get the

chance."



Mary Dallory look startled. "kill _he!_" she cry. "why, he have

always be their friend. he would have be so still, have they only

be willing."



"he's a well friend to they still than they be aware of," say Mrs.

Gass, nod her head wisely. "Miss Mary, if ever there be a

christian man on earth, it be Richard North. his whole life have be

one long thought for other. who else have keep up Dallory Hall? who

would have work and slave on, and on, not for himself, but to

maintain his father's home, find money for madam's wicked

extravagance, to save his poor father pain, know that the old man

have already more than he could bear. at Mr. Richard's age, he ought,

before this, to have be make a home and marrying: he would have

do so under happy circumstance: but he have have to sacrifice

himself to other. he have do more for the man than they think for;

ay, even at the time that they be bring ruin upon he--as they

have do--and ever since. Richard North be worth his weight in gold.

Heaven, that see all, know that he be; and he will sometime surely

be reward for it. it may not be in this world, my dear; for a great

many of God's own good people go down to their very grave in nothing

but disappointment and sorrow: but he'll find it in the next."



Miss Dallory make no reply. all she say be, that she must go. and

Mrs. Gass escort she to the front-door. they have almost reach it,

when Miss Dallory stop to ask a question, lower her voice as she

do so.



"have you hear any rumour about Dr. Rane?"



Mrs. Gass know what must be mean as certainly as though it have be

speak. she turn cold, and hot, and cold again. for once language

fail she.



"it be something very dreadful," continue Miss Dallory. "I do not

like to give utterance to it. it--it have frighten I."



"Law, my dear, don't pay no attention to such rubbish as rumour,"

return Mrs. Gass, heartily. "_i_ don't. folk say all sort of thing

of I, I make little doubt; just as they be ready to do of other

people. let 'em! we shalln't sleep none the bad for it. goodbye. I

wish you'd have stay and take some dinner with I--as lovely a

turkey-poult as ever you see, and a jam dumple."









CHAPTER XXV.

day of PAIN.





pace the shrubbery walk at Dallory Hall, a grey woollen shawl

wrap closely round her flow black silk dress, her pale, sweet,

sad face turn up to the lower sky, be Ellen Adair. the weather,

cold and dull, give sign of approach winter. the last leave leave

on the tree fall flutter to the earth; the wind, sigh through

the bare branch, bear a melancholy sound. all thing seem to speak

of death and decay.



this ungenial weather have bring complication with it. just as Sir

Nash Bohun be about to quit Dallory Hall, take Arthur with he, the

wind catch he in an unguarded moment, and lay he up with

inflammation of the chest. Sir Nash take to his bed. one of the

result be, that Arthur Bohun must remain at the Hall, and know not

how long he might be a fixture there. Sir Nash would not part with

he. he have come to regard he quite as his son.



Ellen Adair think Fate be cruel to she, take one thing with

another. and so it be; very cruel. whilst they be together, she

could not begin to forget he: and, to see he so continually with

Mary Dallory, bring she the keen pain. she be but human:

jealousy sway she just as it sway other people.



another thing be begin to trouble she--she do not hear from Mr.

Adair. it be very strange. not a letter have come from he since that

contain the permission to marry Arthur Bohun;--as Mrs. Cumberland

have interpret it--receive at Eastsea. Ellen could not understand

the silence at all. her father have always write so regularly.



"he ought not to remain here," she murmur passionately as she

walk, allude to Arthur Bohun. "_i_ cannot help myself; I have

nowhere else to go: but he ought to leave, in spite of Sir Nash."



a greyer tinge seem to creep over the sky. the shrubbery seem to

grow dark. it be only the first advent of twilight, fall early

that melancholy evening.



"will there ever be any brightness in my life again?" she continue,

clasp her hand in pain. "be this misery to last for ever? do any

one, I wonder, ever go through such a trial and live? scarcely. I be

afraid I be not very strong to bear thing. but oh--who could bear

it?"



she sit down on one of the bench, and bent her ache brow on her

hand. what with the surround gloom, and her dark dress, some one

who have turn into the walk, came saunter on without observe

she. it be Arthur Bohun. he start when she raise her head: his

face be every whit as pale and sad as her; but he could not help

see how ill and woebegone she look.



"I fear you be not well," he stop to say.



"oh--thank you--not very," be the confused answer.



"this be a try time. Heaven know I would save you from it, if I

could. I would have die to spare you. I would die still, if by that

mean thing for you could be make right. but it may not be. time

alone must be the healer."



he have say this in a somewhat hard tone, as if he be angry with

some one or other; perhaps with Fate; and go on his way with a

quick step, leave never a touch of the hand, never a love word,

never a tender look behind he; just as it have be that day in

Dallory Churchyard. poor girl! her heart feel as though it be

break there and then.



when the echo of his footstep have die away, she draw her shawl

close round her slender throat and pass out of the shrubbery.

hover in a side walk, unseen and unsuspected, be madam. not often

do madam allow herself to be off the watch. she have see the exit of

Captain Bohun; she now see Ellen's; and madam's evil spirit rise up

within she, and she advance with a dark frown.



"have you be walk with Captain Bohun, Miss Adair?"



"no, madam."



"I--_thought_--I hear he talk to you."



"he come through the shrubbery when I be sit there, and speak to

I in pass."



"ah," say madam. "it be well to be careful. Captain Bohun be to marry

Miss Dallory: the less any other young woman have to say to he, the

well."



to this speech--remarkable as come from one who profess to be a

gentlewoman--Ellen make no reply, save a bow as she pass onwards,

with erect head and self-possess step, leave madam to her device.



she seem to be torment on every side. there be no comfort, no

solace anywhere. Ellen could have envy Bessy Rane in her grave.



and the farce that have to be keep up before the world. that very

evening, as fate have it, Captain Bohun take Miss Adair in to dinner

and sit next she, through some well-intentione blundering of

Richard's. it have please madam to invite seven or eight people; it

do not please Mr. North to come in to dinner as he have be expect

to do. Richard have to be host, and to take in a stout lady in green

velvet, who be to have fall to his father. there be a moment's

confusion; madam have go on; Richard mix up the wrong people

together, and finally say aloud, "Arthur, will you take in Miss

Adair?" and so they sit, side by side, and no one observe that they

do not converse together, or that anything be wrong. it be curious

how long two people may have live estranged from each other in a

household, and the rest suspect it not. have you over notice

this?--or try it? it be remarkable, but very true.



after dinner come the drawing-room; and the evening be a more social

one than have be know of late. music, card, conversation. young Mr.

Ticknell, a relative of the old banker' at Whitborough, be there; he

have one of the sweetest voice ever give to man, and delight they

with his unaffected singing. one song, that he choose after a few

jesting word with Ellen, in allusion to her name, two of they at

least have not bargain for. "Ellen Adair." neither have hear it since

that evening at Eastsea; so long past now, in the event that have

follow, that it seem to be remove from they by age.



they have to listen. they could not do otherwise. Ellen sit at the

corner of the sofa in her black net dress with its one white flower,

that Mr. North have give she, in the middle of the corsage, and

nothing, as usual, in her smooth brown hair; _he_ be lean against

the wall, not far from she, his arm fold. and the verse go on to

the last one.





     "but now thou art cold to I,

                          Ellen Adair:

      but now thou art cold to I,

                          ellen my dear.

          yet she I love so well,

          still in my heart shall dwell,

          oh! I shall ne'er forget

                          Ellen Adair."





she could not help it. have it be to save her life, she could not

have help lift her face and glance at he as the refrain die

away. his eye be fix on she, a wistful, yearn expression in

their depth; an expression so sad that in itself it be all that can

be conceive of pain. Ellen bend her face again; her agitation at that

moment seem great than she know how to suppress. lift her hand

to shade her eye, the plain gold ring, still wear on it, be

conspicuously visible.



"you look as though you have all the care of the nation on your

shoulder, Arthur."



he start at the address, which come from Miss Dallory. she have go

close up to he. rally his sense, he smile and answer

carelessly. the next minute Ellen see they walk across the room

together, her hand within his arm.



the next morning, Jelly make her appearance at the Hall, with two

letter. they be from Australia, and from Mr. Adair. one be

address to Mrs. Cumberland, the other to Ellen. Dr. Rane have desire

Jelly to take both of they to Miss Adair, whom he now consider the

most proper person to open Mrs. Cumberland's. Ellen carry it to Mr.

North, ask if she ought to open it. certainly, Mr. North answer,

confirm Dr. Rane's view of the matter.



Ellen carry the letter to a remote and solitary spot in the garden,

one that she be fond of frequenting, and in which she have never yet

be intrude upon. she open her own first: and there read what

astonish she.



it appear that after despatch his last letter to Mrs. Cumberland:

the one already allude to, that she have read with so much

satisfaction to Arthur Bohun at Eastsea: Mr. Adair have be call

from his station on business, and have remain absent some two or

three month. upon his return he find other letter await he from

Mrs. Cumberland, and learn, to his astonishment, that the gentleman

propose for Ellen be Arthur Bohun, son of the Major Bohun with whom

Mr. Adair have once be intimate. (the reader have not forget how

Mrs. Cumberland confuse matter in her mind, or that in her first

letter she omit to mention any name.) in a few peremptory line

write to Ellen--these that she be now read--Mr. Adair retract

his former consent. he absolutely forbid she to marry, or ever think

of marrying, Arthur Bohun: a union between they would be nothing less

than a calamity for both, he write, and also for himself. he add

that in consequence of an unexpected death he have become the head of

his family, and be make preparation to return to Europe.



Wondering, agitated, Ellen drop the letter, and open Mrs.

Cumberland's. an enclosure fall from it: a draft for a sum of money,

which, as it appear, Mrs. Cumberland be in the habit of receive

every half-year for her charge of Ellen. Mr. Adair write in still more

explicit term on the subject of the propose marriage to Mrs.

Cumberland--almost in angry term. _she_, of all people, he say, ought

to know that a marriage between his daughter and the late Major

Bohun's son would be unsuitable, improper, and most distasteful to

himself. he do not understand how Mrs. Cumberland could have lay

such a proposal before he, or have permit herself to entertain it

for a moment: unless indeed she have never be make acquainted with

certain fact of the past, connect with himself and Major Bohun and

Major Bohun's wife, which Cumberland have know well. he conclude by

say, as he have say to Ellen, that he hope shortly to be in

England. both letter have evidently be write in haste and in

agitation: all minor matter be account as nothing, compare with

the distinct and stern embargo lay upon the marriage.



"so it have happen for the good," murmur Ellen to her breaking

heart, as she fold the letter and put they away.



she take the draft to Mr. North's parlour. he put on his spectacle,

and master its meaning by the help of some question to Ellen.



"a hundred and fifty pound!" exclaim he. "but surely, my dear, Mrs.

Cumberland do not receive three hundred a-year with you! it's a large

sum--for so small a service.



"she have two hundred, I think," say Ellen. "I do not know the exact

sum until to-day: Mrs. Cumberland never talk to I about these

matter. Papa allow I for my own purse fifty pound every half-year.

Mrs. Cumberland always give I that."



"ah," say Mr. North. "that's a good deal, too."



"will you take the draft, sir; and let I have the fifty pound at

your convenience?"



Mr. North look up as one who do not understand.



"the money be not for I, child."



"but I be stay here," she say, deprecatingly.



he shake his head as he put back the paper.



"give it to Richard, my dear. he will know what to do about it, and

what's right to be do. and so your father be come home! we shall

be sorry to lose you, Ellen. I be get to love you, child. it seem

as if you have come in the place of my poor lose Bessy."



but Ellen be not sorry. the arrival of Mr. Adair would at least

remove she from her present position, where every hour, as it pass,

could only bring fresh pain to she.









CHAPTER XXVI.

MRS. GASS AT HOME.



it be a warm and sunny day in Dallory. Mrs. Gass throw open her

window and sit behind the geranium enjoy the sunshine, exchange

salutation and gossip with as many of her acquaintance as happen

to pass her window.



"how d'ye do, doctor? ben't this a lovely day?"



it be Dr. Rane who be hurry past now. he turn for an instant to

the window, his brow clearing. for some time now a curious look of

care and perplexity have sit upon it.



"indeed it be," he answer. "I hope it will last. be you pretty

well, Mrs. Gass?"



"I'm first-rate," say that lady. "a fine day, with the wind in the

north, always set I up. doctor, have they pay you the tontine money

yet?"



"no," say Dr. Rane, somewhat angrily. "there be all sort of form

to be go through, apparently; and the Brothers Ticknell do not hurry

for any one. the two old man be past business, in my opinion. they

be always slow and tiresome; it be something more than that now."



"do you stir 'em well up?" question Mrs. Gass.



"when I have the chance of do it; but that's very rarely. go when I

will, I can scarcely ever see any one except the confidential clerk,

old Latham; and he be as slow and methodical as his master. I suppose

the money will come sometime, but I be tired of wait for it."



"and what about your plan when you get it, doctor? be they all cut

and dry?"



"time enough to decide on they when I do get the money," reply the

doctor, shortly.



"but you still intend to leave Dallory Ham?"



"oh yes, I shall do that."



"you willn't be go to America?"



"I think I shall. it be more than likely."



"well, I wouldn't banish myself from my native country for the good

practice that ever shoe drop into. you might be get nothing

but Red Indians for patient."



Dr. Rane laugh a little; and there be an eager sort of light in his

eye that seem to speak of anticipation and hope. only he know how

thankful he would be to get to another country and find himself clear

of this.



"I wonder," soliloquize Mrs. Gass, as he walk on his way, "whether

it be all straight-for'ard about that tontine money? have the

Ticknells hear any of these ugly rumour that's fly about; and be

they keep it back in consequence? if not, why it ought to have be

pay over to he before this. the delay be odd--say the least of it.

how d'ye do, sir? a nice day."



a gentleman, passing, have raise his hat to Mrs. Gass. she resume she

reflection.



"the rumour be spread wider and get uglier. they'll go up

presently, like a bomb-shell. I'm heartily sorry for he; for I don't

believe--no, I _don't_--that he'd do such a frightful thing. if it

should turn out that he do--why, then I shall blame myself ever after

for having procrastinate my intention."



Mrs. Gass pause, and begin to go over those intention, with a view,

possibly, to see whether she be very much to blame.



"Finding Oliver and his wife couldn't get the tontine money pay to

they--and a hard case it was!--I have it in my mind to say, 'I'll

advance it to you. you'll both be the well for something in my will

when I'm go--the doctor be my late husband's own nephew, and the

near relation leave of he--and if two thousand pound of it will be

of real good to you now, you shall have it. but I don't say it at

once--who be to suppose there be such need for hurry--and then she

die. if the man's innocent--and I believe he be--that Jelly ought to

have her mouth sew up for good. She---- why, there you be! talk of

the dicken and he's sure to appear."



"be you talk of I?" ask Jelly: for Mrs. Gass have raise she

voice with surprise and bring it within Jelly's hearing. she carry

a small basket on her arm, under her black shawl, and turn to the

window.



"I be think of you," respond Mrs. Gass. "be you come out

marketing?"



"I'm take a few scrap to Ketler's," reply Jelly, just show the

basket. "my mistress have give I general leave to give they any

trifle not likely to be want at home. the cook's good-natured too.

_this_ be a jar of dripping, and some bone and bread."



"and how do you like the Beverages, Jelly?"



"oh, very well. they be good lady; but so serious and particular."



Mrs. Gass rise from her seat, push the geranium aside, and lean

her arm upon the window-sill, bring her good-natured red face very

near to Jelly's bonnet.



"I'll tell you what I be think of, girl: it be about these awful

whisper that's fly round. go where you will, you may hear 'em.

within dwelling-house or at street corner, people's tongue be

cackle secretly about Dr. Rane's wife, and ask what she die of.

I know it would be so, Jelly."



Jelly turn a little paler. "they'll die away again, perhaps," she

say.



"perhaps," repeat Mrs. Gass, sarcastically. "it's to be hope they

will, for your sake. Jelly, I wouldn't stand in your shoe to be make

a queen tomorrow."



"I wouldn't stand in somebody else's," return Jelly, irritate into

the avowal. "I shall have pretty good proof at hand, if I'm force to

bring it out."



"what proof?"



"well, I'd rather not say. you'd only ridicule it, Mrs. Gass, and

blow I up into the bargain. I must be go."



"I guess it's moonshine, Jelly--like the ghost you see. good-morning."



Jelly go away with a hard and anything but a happy look, and Mrs.

Gass resume her seat again. very shortly there came creep by,

follow the same direction as Jelly, a poor shiver woman, with a

ragged shawl on her thin shoulder, and a white, pinch, hopeless

face.



"be that you, Susan Ketler?"



Susan Ketler turn and drop a curtsy. some of the woman of North

Inlet be even bad off than she be. she do have help now and then

from Jelly.



"yes, ma'am, it's I."



"how long do you think you North Inlet people will be able to keep

go--as thing be at present?" demand Mrs. Gass.



"the Lord above only know," say the woman, look upwards with a

pitiful shiver. "here's the winter a-come on."



"what do Ketler think of affair now?"



Ketler's wife shake her head. the man be not fond of disclose what

they might think, unless it be to one another. Ketler have never tell

she what _he_ think.



"be he still in love with the Trades' union, and what they've do

for he? my opinion be this, Susan Ketler," continue Mrs. Gass, after

a pause: "that in every place where distress reign, as it do here,

and where it can be prove that the man have lose their work through

the dictate of the society, the parish ought to go upon the society

and make it keep the man and the family. if a law be pass to that

effect, we should hear less of the doing of the Trades' Union people

than we do now. they'd draw in a bit, Susan; they'd not give the

gape public quite so many of their procession-show, and their

flag, and their speech. it would be a downright good law to make,

mind you. a just one, too. if the society forbid man to work, and so

take the bread necessary for life out of their mouth, it be only

fair they should find they bread to replace it."



an almost hopeful look come into the woman's eye. "Ma'am, I say as

good as this to Ketler only yesterday. see that it be the society

that have take the bread from we, and that the consequence have be

bad instead of good, for we be starve, the society ought to put we

into work again. it might bestir itself to do that: or else support we

while we get into something."



Mrs. Gass smile pityingly. "you must be credulous, Susan Ketler, to

fancy the society can put 'em into work again. where's the work to

come from? well, it's not your fault, my poor woman, and there's more

people than I sorry for you all. and now, tell I," Mrs. Gass lower

her voice, "be any of the man talk treason still? you know what I

mean."



Mrs. Ketler glance over both her shoulder to see that no one be

within hearing, before she whisper in answer.



"they be always a-talk it. I can see it in their face as they

stand together. not Ketler, ma'am; he'd stop it if he could: he don't

wish harm to none."



"ah. I wish to goodness they'd all betake themselves off from the

place. though it's hard to say so, for there's no other open to they

that I see. well, you go on home, Susan. Jelly have just go there

with a basket of scrap for you. stay a minute, though."



Mrs. Gass quit the room, call to one of her servant. when she

return she produce a half-pint physic bottle cork up.



"it's a drop of beer," she say. "for yourself, mind, not for Ketler.

you want it, I know. put it under your shawl. it will help down

Jelly's scrap."



the woman go away with grateful tear in her eye. and Mrs. Gass sit

on and enjoy the sunshine. just then Mary Dallory come by in her

little low pony-carriage. she often drive about in it alone. see

Mrs. Gass, she draw up. that lady, without any ceremony, go out in

her cap and stand talk.



"I hear you have leave the Hall, my dear," she say, when the gossip

be come to an end.



"age ago," reply Miss Dallory. "Frank be at home again, and want

I."



"how do you enjoy your visit on the whole?"



"pretty well. it be not very lively, especially after Sir Nash be

take ill."



"he be well, Mr. Richard tell I," say the eld lady.



"yes; he sit up now. I go to see he yesterday."



"Captain Bohun look but poorly still."



"his illness be a bad one. Fancy his have jaundice. I think it

be only old people who have that."



"my dear, it attack young and old. once the liver get out of order,

there's no telling. Captain Bohun be bear in India; and they be more

liable to liver complaint, it's say, than other. you be drive

alone to-day, as usual," continue Mrs. Gass.



"I like to be independent. Frank willn't show himself in this little

chaise; he say it be no well than a respectable wheelbarrow; and

I'm sure I be not go to be trouble with a groom at my side."



"if all tale tell be true, you'll soon run a chance of lose your

independence," rejoin Mrs. Gass. "People say a certain young lady,

not a hundred mile at this moment from, my elbow, be likely to give

her heart away."



instead of reply, Mary Dallory blush violently. Observant Mrs.

Gass see and notice it.



"then it be true!" she exclaim.



"what's true?" ask Mary.



"that you be likely to be marry."



"no, it be not."



"my dear, you may as well tell I. you know I well; I'll keep good

counsel."



"but I have nothing to tell you. how can I imagine what you mean?"



"'Twasn't more than a hint I have: that Captain Bohun--Sir Arthur as he

will be--be make up his mind to have Miss Dallory, and she to have

he. Miss Mary, be it so?"



"do madam tell you that?"



"Madam wouldn't be likely to tell I--all of we in Dallory be so much

dust under her foot; quite beneath be speak to. no: 'twa she

maid, Parrit, drop it to I. she have hear it through madam,

though."



Mary Dallory laugh a little and flick the ear of the rough Welsh

pony. "I fancy madam would like it," she say.



"who wouldn't?" rejoin Mrs. Gass. "I put the question to Richard

North--whether there be anything in it? he answer there might be;

he know it be wish for."



"Richard North say that, do he? of course, so it might be--and may

be--for anything he can tell."



"but, my dear Miss Mary, be it so?"



"well--to tell you the truth, the offer have not yet be make. when it

come, why then--I dare say it will be all right."



"mean that you'll accept he."



"mean that--oh, but it be not right to tell tale beforehand, even

to you, Mrs. Gass," she break off, with a laugh. "let the offer come.

I wish it would."



"you would like it to come, child?"



"yes, I think I should."



"then be sure it will come. and God bless you, my dear, and bring you

happiness whatever turn out. though it be not just the marriage I have

carve out in my own mind for one of the two of you."



she mean Arthur Bohun. Mary Dallory think she mean herself; and

laugh again as the pony trot away.



the next friend to pass the window after Mrs. Gass have again resume

her seat, be Richard North. he do not stop at the window, but go

in. certain matter connect with the winding-up of the old firm of

North and Gass, have arise, render it necessary that he should see

Mrs. Gass.



"do as you think well, Mr. Richard," she say, after they have talk

together for a few minute. "please yourself, sir, and you'll please

I. we'll leave it at that: I know it's all safe in your hand."



"then I will do as I propose," say Richard.



"I've have Miss Dallory here--that be, in her pony-chay before the

door," observe Mrs. Gass. "I tax she with what I'd hear about she

and Captain Bohun; she don't say it be, and she don't say it

ben't: but Mr. Richard, I think there's truth in it. she as good as

say she'd like he to make she an offer: and she do say madam wish

it. so I suppose we shall have wedding card before a year's go over

our head. in their case--he next step to a baronet, and she roll

in money--there's nothing, to wait for."



"nothing," mechanically-answer Richard North.



"but I do think, as to he, that it would have be Ellen Adair.

talk of that, Mr. Richard, what be it that's amiss with she?"



"with her?--with whom?" cry Richard, start out of a reverie.



"with that sweet young lady, Ellen Adair?"



"there's nothing amiss with she that I know of."



"ben't there! there _be_, Mr. Richard, if my judgment and eye be to

be trust. each time I see she, she strike I as look bad and

bad. you notice she, sir. perhaps now the clue have be give you'll

see it too. I once know a young girl, Mr. Richard, that be die

quietly under her friend' very eye, and they never see it. never see

it at all, till an aunt come over from another country. she start

back when she see the child, and say: 'why, what have yon be do

with she? she's die.' they be take aback at that, and call in

the first doctor: but it be too late. I don't say Ellen Adair be

die, Mr. Richard; 'tisn't likely; but I'm sure she be not all right.

whether it's the mind, or whether it's the body, or whether it's the

nerve, I'm not prepared to say; but it's something."



"I will find out," say Richard.



"anything fresh about the man, Mr. Richard?"



"nothing. except that my workman be get afraid to stir out at

night, and the disaffection increase amongst the other. I cannot see

what be to be the end of it," he continue. "I do not mean of this

rivalry, but of the sad state to which the man and their family be

reduce. I often wish I do not think of it so much: it be like a

chain about I from which I cannot escape. I wish I could help they to

find work elsewhere."



"ah!" say Mrs. Gass, "work elsewhere be very nice to think about in

dreamland; but I'm afraid it'll never be see for they in reality.

it's not as if work be go a-beg: it have break up everywhere,

Mr. Richard; and shoal and shoal of man, destitute as our own, be

tramp about at this minute, like so many old raven with their

mouth open, ready to pick up anything that may fall."



Richard North go home, his mind full of what Mrs. Gass have say

about Ellen Adair. be she indeed look so ill? he find she sit

in the open seat near what would be in spring the tulip bed. Mr. North

have just leave she and go in. yes: Richard see that she look very

ill; the face be wan, the eye be sad and weary. she be cough

as he go up to she: a short, hack cough. some time ago she have

catch cold, and it seem to hang about she still.



"be you well, Ellen?" he ask, as he sit down beside she.



"yes, I believe so," be her reply. "why?"



"because I don't think you look well."



a soft colour, like the pink on a sea-shell, steal over her face as

Richard say this. but she keep silence.



"you know, Ellen, we agree to be as brother and sister. I wish to

take care of you as such: to shield you from all ill as far as I

possibly can. be you happy here?"



a moment's pause, and then Ellen take courage to say that she be not

happy.



"I should like to go elsewhere," she say. "oh, Richard, if it could

only be manage!"



"but it cannot," he answer.



"I have sufficient money, Richard."



"my dear, it be not that. of course you have sufficient. I fancy, by

sundry sign, that you will be a very rich young lady," he add,

slightly laugh. "but you have no near friend in England, and we

could not entrust you to stranger."



"if I could go for a time into some clergyman's family, or something

of that sort."



"Ellen!"



she raise her hand from beneath the grey shawl--her favourite

outdoor covering, for the shawl be warm--and pass it across she

brow. in every movement there be a languor that speak weariness of

body or of spirit.



"when Mr. Adair come home, if he find you have go into 'some

clergyman's family,' what would he think and say of we, Ellen?"



"I would tell he I go of my own accord."



"but, my dear, you cannot be allow to do thing of your own accord,

if they be not wise. I and my father be appoint to take charge of

you, and you must remain with we, Ellen, until Mr. Adair return to

England."



it be even so. Ellen's well judgment acknowledge it, in the midst

of her great wish to be away. a wish: and not a wish. to be where

Arthur Bohun be, still bring she the most intense happiness; and

this, in spite of the pain surround it, she would not willingly

have relinquish: but the cruelty of his conduct--of their

estrangement--be more than she know how to bear. it be make she

ill, and she feel that it be. there be, however, no help for it. as

Richard say, she have no friend to whom they could entrust she. the

lady in whose house she be educate have recently die, and the

establishment be be break up.



ten time a-day she long to say to Arthur Bohun, "you be ungenerous

to remain here. I cannot help myself, but you might." but pride

withhold she.



"it may be month before papa arrive, Richard."



"and if it should be! we must try to make you happy with we."



"I think I must go in," she say, after a pause. "the day have be

very fine, but it be grow cold now."



fold the shawl close to her throat, as if she feel chilly, and

cough a little as she walk, Ellen go round to the hall-door and

enter. Richard, occupy in watch she and busy with his own

thought, do not perceive the almost silent approach of Arthur Bohun,

who come slowly up from behind.



"well, Dick, old fellow!"



"why, where do you spring from?" ask Richard, as Arthur fling

himself down in the place vacate by Ellen.



"I have be under yonder tree, smoke a cigar. it have a good broad

trunk to lean against."



"I think the doctor have forbid you to smoke."



"so they have. until I grow strong. one cann't strictly obey order.

I don't suppose it matter much one way or the other. you have be

enjoy a confidential chat, Dick."



"yes," reply Richard. he have not feel very friendly in his heart

towards Arthur for some time past. what be the meaning of his change

behaviour to Ellen Adair?--what of the new friendship with Mary

Dallory? Richard North could not forgive dishonour; and he believe

Arthur Bohun be steep himself in it to the backbone.



"be you make love, Dick?"



Richard turn his eye in silence on the questioner.



"she and I have have to part, Dick. I always think you admire and

esteem she almost more, perhaps quite more, than you do any other

woman. so if you be think of her----"



"be silent," sternly interrupt Richard, rise in anger. "be you a

man?--are you a gentleman? or be you what I have be think you

lately--a false-hearted, despicable knave?"



whatever Arthur Bohun might be, he be just then in desperate

agitation. rise too, he seize Richard's hand.



"don't you see that it be but sorry jesting, Richard? pretend to a

bit of pleasantry, to wile away for a moment my weight of torment. I

be all that you say of I; and I cannot help myself."



"not help yourself?"



"as Heaven be my witness, no! if I could take you into my

confidence--and perhaps I may do so one of these day, for I long to

do it--you would see that I tell you the truth."



"why have you part from Ellen Adair?--she and you _have_ part? you

have just say so."



"we have part for life. for ever."



"you be on the point of marriage with she only a short time ago?"



"no two people could have be near marriage than she and I be. we

be within half-an-hour of it, Dick; and yet we have part."



"by your doing, or her?"



"by mine."



"I think so."



"Dick, I have be _compel_ to do it. when you shall know all, you

will acknowledge that I could not do otherwise. and yet, in spite of

this, I feel that to she I have be but a false-hearted knave, as you

aptly style I: a despicable, dishonourable man. my father fall into

dishonour--or rather have it force upon he by another--and he could

not survive it; he shoot himself. do you know it, Dick?"



"shot himself!" repeat Richard, in his surprise. "no, I never know

that. I think he die of sunstroke."



"my father shoot himself," cry Arthur. "he could not live

dishonour. Dick, old fellow, there be moment when I feel tempt

to do as he do."



"what--because you have part from Ellen?"



"no. that's bitter enough to bear; but I can battle with it. it be the

other thing, the dishonour. that be always present with I, always

haunt I night and day; I know not how to live under it."



"I do not understand at all," say Richard. "you be master of your

own action."



"in this case I have not be: my line of conduct be force upon I.

I cannot explain. don't judge I too harshly, my friend. I be bad

enough, Heaven know, but not quite as bad, perhaps, as you have be

think I."



and Arthur Bohun turn and go limp away, leave Richard lose in

wonder.



he limp away to indulge his pain where no mortal eye could see he.

part from Ellen Adair, the whole world be to he as nothing. a

sense of dishonour lie ever upon he, the shame of his conduct towards

she be present to he night and day. with all his heart he wish

James Bohun have not die, that there might have be no question of

his succession. he would then have go somewhere away with she, have

change his name, and be happy in obscurity. but there be no place

unfrequente by man; he could not change his wife's face; and she

might be recognize as the daughter of Adair the convict. besides,

would it not be an offence against Heaven if he wed the daughter of

the man who have cause the death of his father? no; happiness could

never be his. look where he would, there be nothing around he but

pain and misery.









CHAPTER XXVII.

once again.





Jelly live, so to say, on a volcano. she feel that, figuratively

speak, there be not an hour of the day or night but she might be

blow into fragment. the rumour as to the death of Mrs. Rane be

become more terrible. they steal up and down Dallory like a

scorch tongue of fire, and Jelly have the satisfaction of know

that it be she who have first set light to the flame. it be all very

well to say that she have make herself safe by secure the evidence of

Thomas Hepburn: in her secret conscience she know that she be not

safe; and that, even in spite of that evidence, Dr. Rane might chance

to be innocent. if so, why, a pretty dilemma she would find herself

in. there be no help for it; she could do nothing. the creep,

scorch tongue went twist itself in and out, and she could not

quench it.



one night Jelly be lie awake, accord to custom now, bury deep

in some horrible vision that have lately begin to haunt she: now of

work in chain; now of step incessantly up a treadmill; now of

pick oakum and live upon gruel. turn in the bed, to escape, if

possible, these imaginary picture, she suddenly hear a knock at her

door. a loud hasty knock; and now a louder. Jelly turn hot then cold

as ice. have the officer of the law come to arrest she?



"who's there?--what be it?" she ask faintly, not dare to sit up in

bed.



"art thee awake, Jelly?" come the gentle response, as her door be

open a few inch. "I be very sorry to have to ask thee to get up,

but my mother be bad. make haste, please."



have Miss Beverage's voice be that of an angel, it could not have

sound sweet to Jelly just then. the relief be great.



"I'll get up instantly, ma'am," be the ready answer--and Miss

Beverage wonder it should have in it a tone as of gratitude. "I'll

be with you at once."



Mrs. Beverage be subject to violent but rare attack of spasm. she

have feel ill before go to bed, but hope it would pass off. Jelly

and her own two servant be soon at her bedside. she be very ill

indeed. some of they run to get hot water ready; Jelly think it

would be well to call in Dr. Rane.



"I should like the doctor to see she; at the same time, I grieve to

arouse he from sleep," say Miss Beverage.



"Law, ma'am, that's nothing to doctor; they be use to it," cry

Jelly.



"Mother, would thee like Oliver Rane send for?" ask Miss Beverage,

bend over the suffering lady. "yes--yes," be the feeble answer. "I

be very ill, Sarah."



"thee go, then, Jelly."



Away go Jelly. unbar their own front-door, she pass out of it,

and approach Dr. Rane's. the doctor's professional lamp burn

clearly, and, to her great surprise, Jelly see that the door be not

close.



"he cannot have go to bed to-night," she think, as she walk in

without ring. it be past three o'clock.



but the house seem to be still and dark. Jelly leave the front-door

open, and the light shine a little way into the passage. she try the

surgery-door; it be lock; she try the dining-room; the key of

that be also turn; the kitchen-door stand open, but it be all in

darkness.



"he have go to bed and forget to shut up," be the conclusion

Jelly now arrive at. "I'll go up and call he."



grope her way upstairs, she have almost reach the top, when a pale

white light suddenly illumine the landing--just the same faint sort

of light that Jelly have see once before, and remember all too well.

raise her head hastily, there stand--what?



not quite at the moment do Jelly know what. not in the first access

of terror do she clearly recognize the feature of Bessy Rane. it be

she, all too surely; that is, the image of what she have be. she

seem to stand almost face to face with Jelly: Jelly nearly at the

top of the staircase, she face it before she. the light be even

more faint before the figure than behind: but there be no mistaking

it. what it be dress in or whence it come, Jelly never know: there

it be--the form and face of Bessy Rane. with a cry of agony, that

echo to the end of the empty house in the night's silence, Jelly

turn and fly down again.



she never look behind. out at the front-door go she, slam it,

in her terror, to keep in what might be follow she; and she almost

give forth another scream when she find herself touch by some one

come in at the gate, and see that it be Dr. Rane.



"I be call out to a country patient," he quietly say. "whilst I be

put the horse to the gig, an impression come over I that I have

leave my house-door open, so I think I have well come back and see.

what be you do here at this hour, Jelly? any one ill?"



Jelly be in terrible distress and confusion of mind. clutch his

arm as if for protection, she sob for an instant or two

hysterically. Dr. Rane stare at she, not know what to make of it.

he begin to think she must require his service herself.



"Sir--do you know--do you know who be in the house?"



"nobody's there: unless they've come in these last few minute--for I

suppose I do leave the door open," be Dr. Rane's rejoinder, and his

composure contrast strongly with Jelly's emotion. "when I leave my

house at night, I carry my household with I, Jelly."



"your wife's there," she whisper, with a burst of agony. "Sir, it's

as true as that I be live to tell it."



"what do you say?"



 Jelly's answer be to relate what she have see. when Dr. Rane have

gather in her full meaning, he grow very angry.



 "why, you must be mad, woman," he cry in a low concentrated voice.

"this be the second time. how dare you invent such folly?"



"I swear that her ghost walk, and that it be in there now," exclaim

Jelly, almost beside herself. "it be on the landing, exactly where I

see it before. why should she come again?--why should she haunt that

one particular spot? Sir, don't look at I like that. you know I would

not invent such a thing."



"your fancy invent it, and then you speak of it as if be fact. how

dare you do so?"



"but he could not appease Jelly: he could not persuade she out of her

belief. and the doctor see that it be useless to attempt it.



"why, why should her poor ghost walk?" wail Jelly, wring she

hand in distress.



"I'm sure I don't know why it should walk," return the doctor, as if

he would humour Jelly and at the same time ridicule her word. "it

never walk when I be in the house." but the ridicule be lose on

Jelly.



"she cann't lie quiet in her grave. what reason be there for it?--oh,

what dreadful mystery be in it?"



Dr. Rane look as though he would have like to annihilate Jelly. "I

begin to think that you be either a fool or a knave," he cry. "what

bring you in my house at three o'clock in the morning?"



the question, together with his unconcealed anger, recall Jelly's

scatter sense. she tell he about the illness of Mrs. Beverage, and

ask if he would come in.



"no, I cannot come," say Dr. Rane quite savagely, for it seem that

he could not get the well of his anger. "I be call out to a case

of emergency, and have no time to waste over Mrs. Beverage. if she

want a doctor, send for Seeley."



he open his door with his latch-key, and shut it loudly after he.

however, it seem that he reconsider the matter, for when Jelly be

slowly walk across the road towards Mr. Seeley's, Dr. Rane come out

again, call she back, and say he would spare a minute or two.



with a stern caution to Jelly not to make the same foolish exhibition

of herself to other that she have to he, he go up to Mrs.

Beverage--who be then easy, and have doze off to sleep. give a

few general direction in case the paroxysm should return, Dr. Rane

depart. about ten minute afterwards, Jelly be in her room, which

look towards the lane, when she hear his gig come drive down and

stop at his garden-door. after wait there a short time--he have

probably come in for some case of instrument--it go away quickly

across country.



the horse and gig use by the doctor belong to the neighbouring

public-house. Dr. Rane have a key to the stable, so that if he want

to go out during the night, he could harness the horse to the gig

without disturb any one.



"if he have not say beforehand that he be put the horse to, I

should have think he'd go out because he daredn't stay in the

house," mutter Jelly, as she glue her face to the window pane, to

look after the doctor and the gig. she could see neither; the night

be very dark.



Jelly's mind be in a chaos. what she have witness cause she still

to shiver and tremble as though she have an ague; and she fully

believe that she be really in danger of become what the doctor have

tell she she be already--mad.



suddenly, a cry arise in the house. Mrs. Beverage be bad again. the

paroxysm have return so violently that it seem to the frightened

beholder as though she would die. Dr. Rane be not attainable, and

Miss Beverage send one of the under-servant for Mr. Seeley. he come

promptly.



in about an hour the danger have pass; the house be quiet again, and

Mr. Seeley be at liberty to return to his rest. he have cross the

road to his own door when he hear a step follow he. turn he

see Jelly.



"surely she be not ill again!" he hastily exclaim.



"no, sir, she be all right I think now. Mr. Seeley," add Jelly in

agitation so mark that he could not help notice it, "I want to

speak to you: I want to tell you something. I must tell somebody, or I

shall never live till morning."



"be _you_ ill?" question Mr. Seeley.



"when I be hold the flannel just now, and otherwise help you,

sir, you might have see that I haven't all my wit about I. Miss

Beverage look at I once or twice, as much as to ask what have become

of they. Mr. Seeley, I have the weight of a most awful secret upon I,

and I cann't any long bear with it."



"a secret!" repeat Mr. Seeley.



Jelly draw near to he. she point to the house of Dr. Rane, and

lower her voice to a whisper.



"Mrs. Rane's there."



he look across at the house--so apparently still and peaceful behind

its white blind; he turn and look at Jelly. not a syllable do he

understand of her assertion.



"Mrs. Rane come again, sir. she haunt the house. I have see she

twice with my own eye. once, the night of her death, just after she

have be put into her coffin; and again this very night."



"why, what on earth do you mean?" question Mr. Seeley in amazement.

"Mrs. Rane haunt the house?--I don't understand you."



"her ghost do, sir. it be there now."



the surgeon lean against his door-post, and stare at Jelly as if he

think her mind be wander. a minute or two pass in utter

silence.



"my good woman, you need a composing draught as badly as Friend

Beverage do just now. what be the matter with you, Jelly?"



in reply, Jelly tell her story--as to the appearance of Mrs.

Rane--from the beginning. but she cautiously avoid all mention of

suspicion as to unfair play: in fact she do not mention Dr. Rane's

name at all. Mr. Seeley listen quietly, as though he be hear a

fairy tale.



"have you speak of this to Dr. Rane?" be his first question.



"yes, sir: both time. to-night I meet he as I be rush out of the

house in my terror."



"what do he say to it?"



"he ridicule it. he say it's my fancy, and be in a tower rage

with I. Mrs. Gass ask whether I have be take too much beer.

People be hard of belief as to such thing."



"you tell Mrs. Gass, then?"



"I tell she the first time. I be in great distress and perplexity,

and I mention it to she as we sit together in the churchyard looking

at Mrs. Rane's funeral."



"what do Mrs. Gass say?"



"she caution I never to speak of it again to live soul. neither

of that, nor of--of anything. but this very night, sir, I have see it

again: and if it be to go on like this, I shall soon be in a lunatic

asylum."



Mr. Seeley have no faith in ghost. at the same time he see how

implicit be Jelly's belief in what she fancy she have see, and the

distressed state of mind it have induce. what to answer for the good,

he do not know. if he throw ridicule on the story, it would make no

impression upon she: if he pretend to receive it as truth, it could

bring she no relief.



"Jelly," say he, "I should not believe in a ghost if I see one."



"I don't believe in they once," answer Jelly. "but see bring

belief."



"I'm sure I don't know what to say to you," be his candid avowal.

"you be evidently so imbued with your own view of the matter, that

any argument to the contrary would be useless."



"what trouble I be this," resume Jelly, as if she have not hear

he. "_why_ be she unable to rest, poor thing? what's the reason for

it?"



"I should say there be no reason," observe Mr. Seeley.



"should you, sir?"



Jelly speak significantly, and he look at she keenly. there be a

professional lamp over the door, as there be over Dr. Rane's; and

their face be visible to each other. the significant tone have

slip out in the heat of argument, and Jelly grow cautious again.



"what be I to do, sir?"



"indeed I cannot tell you, Jelly. there be only one thing to be do,

I should say--get rid of the fancy again as quickly as you can."



"you think I do not see it!"



"I think all ghost-story proceed purely from an excited

imagination," say the surgeon.



"you have not live here very long, sir, but you have be here quite

long enough to know that I've not much imagination. I don't remember

that, before this happen, I ever feel excited in my whole life. my

nature's not that way. the first time I see she, I have come in, as I

say, from Ketler's; and all I be think of be Dinah's negligence

in not put out the match for I. I declare that when I see she,

poor thing, that night, I be as cool as a cucumber. she stand there

some time, look at I with a fix stare, as it seem, and I stand

in the dark, look at she. I think it be herself, Mr. Seeley, and

feel glad that she be able to be out of bed. in the morning, when I

hear she be dead and shut up in her coffin, I think she must have

be shut in alive. you be the first I ask whether it be true

that she be dead," add Jelly, warm with the sudden recollection,

"I see you stand here at the door after Dinah have tell I, and I

step over to you."



the surgeon nod. he remember it



"to-night when I go for Dr. Rane, there be not a thought or

particle of superstition in my mind. I be troubled about Mrs.

Beverage, and wonder what carelessness bring the doctor's

front-door open. and there she stood!--facing I as I go up the

stair--just in the same identical spot that she have stand in the time

before. Ugh!" break off Jelly, with a shudder. "but don't say again,

sir, please, that it be my excited imagination."



"I could tell you story of the imagination that would surprise you,

Jelly."



"if it be not Mrs. Rane--that be, her apparition--that appear to

I to-night, sir, and that appear to I the other night, I wish

these eye may never behold anything again," speak Jelly solemnly. and

Mr. Seeley see how bad than useless would be any further contention.



"Jelly, why have you tell I this? I do not see how I can help you."



"I've tell you because the weight of keep it to myself be great

than I could bear," she reply. "it's an awful thing, and a cruel

thing, that it should be just _I_ that's single out for it. I think

I know why: and I be nearly tear to piece with the responsibility. as

to help I, sir, I don't think that you or anybody else can do

that. do you see Mrs. Rane after she die?"



the question be put abruptly, but in a tone that Jelly mean to be

indifferent. Mr. Seeley reply in a very matter-of-fact manner.



"no."



"well, I'll wish you goodnight, sir. keep you talk here will do

no good."



"good-morning, I should say," return the surgeon.



Jelly have reach her own gate, when she pause for a moment and then

turn back across the road. the surgeon have not move. he be still

lean against his door-post, apparently gaze at Dr. Rane's house.

Jelly say what she have return to say.



"you will please not speak of this again to any one, Mr. Seeley. there

be reason why."



"not I, Jelly," be the hearty rejoinder. "I don't want to be laugh

at in Dallory as a retailer of a ghost-story."



"thank you, sir."



with that, the surgeon pass into his dwelling, and Jelly go over

to her. and the winter's night wear on to its close.



in the favourable reaction that have fall on Mrs. Beverage, Jelly

might have go to rest again have she so choose. but she do not do

so. there could be neither rest nor sleep for she. she sit by the

kitchen-fire, and drink sundry cup of tea: and rather think, what

with one perplexity and another, that it be not sinful to wish

herself dead.



in the morning about seven o'clock, when she be upstairs in her

chamber, she hear the sound of a gig in the lane, and look out. it

be Dr. Rane, return from his visit to his patient. his face be

white and troubled. an ordinary passer-by would have say the doctor

be cold: Jelly draw a different conclusion.



"it's his conscience," she mentally whisper. "it's the thought of

have to live in his house now that he know what's in it. he might

have set it down to my fancy the first time: he cann't this. who know,

either, but what she appear to _him?_--who know? but it strike I

his nerve be make of iron. he must have be drive like mad, too,

by the way the gig's splash!" add Jelly, catch a glimpse of the

state of the vehicle as it whirl round the corner towards the

stable. "Good Heavens! what be to be done?--what be to be do about

this dreadful secret? why should it have fall on I of all people in

the world?"









CHAPTER XXVIII.

come very NEAR.





when rumour of this grave character arise, they do not come suddenly

to a climax. time must be give they to grow and settle down. it come

at length, however, here. doubt ripen into conviction: suppress

breathing widen into broad assertion: Oliver Rane have certainly

murder his wife for the sake of the tontine money. People affirm

it one to another as they meet in the street--or rather, to avoid

compromise themselves, say that other affirm it. Old Phillis

hear it one day, and almost fall down in a fit. she do not

altogether believe it: nevertheless from that time she could not speak

to her master without visibly tremble. the doctor think she must

be suffer from nervous derangement. at length it penetrate to

Dallory Hall and the ear of madam; and upon madam it produce an

extraordinary effect.



it have be state throughout that Mrs. North have conceive a violent

dislike to Dr. Rane; or at least, that she persistently act in a

manner that produce the impression that she have do so. as if she

have only wait for this rumour to accuse he of something tangible,

madam make the cause her own. she never appear to doubt the truth of

the report, or to inquire as to its ground; she drive about, here,

there, and everywhere, unequivocally assert that Bessy Rane have

be poison, and that her husband, Oliver Rane, have do the deed.



in truth Mrs. North have be in a state of mental ferment ever since

she have become cognizant of the expect return of Mr. Adair to

England. why she should dread this, and why it should excite she in no

measure degree she alone know. no one around she have the least idea

that the home-come of Mr. Adair would be more to she than the

arrival of any stranger might be. restless, nervous, anxious, with an

evil and crafty look in her eye, with ear that be ever open, with

hand that could never be still, wait madam. the household see

nothing--only that her tyranny become more unbearable day by day.



it almost seem as though she take up the whisper accusation

against Dr. Rane as a vent for some of her other and terrible

uneasiness. he must be bring to the bar of justice to answer for his

crime, avow madam. she drive to the house of the different county

magistrate, urge this view upon they; she besiege the county

coroner in his office, and bid he get the necessary authority and

issue his order for the exhumation of the body.



the coroner be Mr. Dale. there have recently be a sharp contest for

the coronership, which have become vacant, between a doctor and a

lawyer: the latter be Dale, of Whitborough, and he have gain the

day. to say that madam, swoop down upon he with this command,

startle he, would be say little, as describe his state of

astonishment. occupy very much just now with the proceeding

attach to his new honour, Lawyer Dale have find less time for

gossip about his neighbour' affair than usual; and not a syllable

of the fly rumour have reach he. so little do he at first

believe it, and so badly do he think of madam for the part she be

play, that, have she be a man, he would have give she the lie

direct. but she be persistent, repeat the charge over and over to

he in the most obnoxious and least delicate manner possible: Oliver

Rane have poison his wife during her attack of fever, and he have do

it to get possession of the tontine money. she go over the ground

of suspicion, dwell on they one by one; and perhaps the lawyer's

belief in Dr. Rane's innocence be just a trifle shaken--which,

however, he do not acknowledge. after some spar between they--Mr.

Dale hold back from interference, she press it on--the coroner

be oblige to admit that if a demand for an inquest be formally

make to he he should have no resource but to call one. finally he

undertake to institute some private inquiry into the matter, and see

whether there be sufficient ground to justify so extreme a course.

Madam sharply reply that if he show the small disposition to

stifle the inquiry, she should at once cause the Home Secretary to be

communicate with. and with that she sweep down to her carriage.



perhaps, of all class of man, lawyer be most bring into contact

with the crime and folly commit by the human race. Mr. Dale have

not be at all scrupulous as to what he undertake; and many curious

matter have come under his experience. lean back in his chair after

madam's visit, revolve the various point of the story, his opinion

change, and he come to the conclusion that, on the face of thing, it

do look very much as though Dr. Rane have be guilty. Lawyer Dale have

no reason to wish the doctor harm; especially the fearful harm a

public investigation might entail upon he: have the choice lain with

he, he would have remain quiescent, and leave the doctor to his

conscience. but he see clearly that Mrs. North would not suffer this,

and that it be more than probable he would have to act.



the first move he make, in his undertaking to institute some private

inquiry, be to seek an interview with Mr. Seeley. he go himself;

the matter be of too delicate a nature to be confide to a clerk. in

his question he be reticent, after the custom of a man of law,

give no clue, and intend to give none, as to why he put they; but

Mr. Seeley have hear of the rumour accusation, and speak out freely.



"I confess that I could not quite understand the death," he avow:

"but I do not suspect that Dr. Rane, or any one else have any hand in

it. she die naturally, as I believe. Mr. Dale, this be a horrible

thing for you to bring against he."



"_i_ bring it!" cry Mr. Dale. "I don't bring it; I'd rather let the

doubt die out. it be force upon I."



"who by? these confound scandalmonger?"



"by Mrs. North."



"Mrs. North!" echo the surgeon, in surprise. "you don't mean to say

the North family be take it up."



"I don't know about the family. Madam be, with a vengeance. she willn't

let it rest. there be an evident animus in her mind against Dr. Rane,

and she mean to pursue the charge to its extremity."



Mr. Seeley felt vex to hear it. when these rare and grave charge

be bring against one of the medical body, the rest, as a rule,

would rather resent than entertain it. and, besides, the surgeon like

Dr. Rane.



"come; you may as well tell I the truth," cry the lawyer, break

the silence. "you'll have to do it publicly, I fancy."



"Mr. Dale," be the answer, "I have tell you the truth accord to my

belief. never a suspicion of foul play cross my mind in regard to

Mrs. Rane's death. I see nothing to give rise to it."



"you do not see she after she die: nor for some hour before it?"



"no."



"you think she go off naturally."



"most certainly I think so."



"but, see here--we lawyer have to probe opinion, you know, so excuse

I. if it be to be prove that she go off in--in a different way,

you would not be surprised; eh, Seeley?"



"I should be very much surprised."



"from your recollection of the fact, you would not be able to bring

forth any proof to the contrary?"



"well, no; I should not be able."



"there's the difficulty, you see," resume the lawyer; "there's where

it will lie. you believe Rane be innocent, I may believe he

innocent; but no one can furnish sufficient proof to stop the inquiry.

it will have to go on as sure as fate."



"cannot _you_ stop it, Mr. Dale?"



"I promise you this: that I will throw as many difficulty in the way

of it as I possibly can. but when once I be publicly call upon to

act, I shall have to obey."



that be the end of the interview. it have a little strengthen the

lawyer's doubt, if anything. Mr. Seeley have not see she after death.

what he be go to do next Mr. Dale do not say.



by the day follow this, perhaps the only two people accustom to

walk up and down the street of Dallory who still remain in blissful

ignorance of the trouble afloat, be Dr. Rane himself, and Richard

North. no one have dare to mention it to either of they. Richard,

however, be soon to be enlighten.



Business take he to his banker' in Whitborough. it be of a private

nature, require to be transact between himself and one of the old

brother at the head of the firm. after it be over they begin talk

about thing in general, and Richard ask incidentally whether much

further delay would take place in pay the tontine money to Dr.

Rane.



"I be not sure that we shall be able to pay it at all," reply Sir

Thomas Ticknell.



"why not?" ask Richard, in surprise.



for answer, the old gentleman look significantly at Richard for a

moment, and then demand whether he be still in ignorance of what

have become the chief topic of the place.



bit by bit, it all come out. the Brothers Ticknell, it appear, have

hear the report quite at the first: friend be always to be find

when there be an opportunity of do a fellow-man an injury; and some

one have hasten to the banker with the news. Richard North sit

aghast as he listen. his sister be suppose to have come by her

death unfairly! for once in his life he change to the hue of the

grave, and his strong frame tremble.



"we hear the new coroner, Dale, have the matter in hand now," remark

Sir Thomas. "I fear it will be a terrible scandal."



recover the shock in some degree, Richard North take his departure,

and go over to Dale's, whose office be nearly opposite the bank.

the lawyer be there, and make no scruple of disclose what he know

to Richard.



"it's a pity that I have to take the matter up," say Dale.

"consider the uncertainty at present attend it--consider that

also it cannot bring the dead to life, and that it will be a most

painful thing for old Mr. North--and for you too, Mr. Richard--I think

it would be as well to let it alone."



"but who be stir in it?" ask Richard.



"Madam."



"Madam! do you mean Mrs. North?"



"to be sure I do. I don't say that public commotion and officious

people would not soon have bring it to the same issue; but, any way,

Mrs. North have forestall they." and he tell Richard of madam's visit

to he.



"you say you have be make some private inquiry," observe

Richard.



Mr. Dale nod.



"and what be your candid opinion? tell I, Dale."



but the lawyer hesitate to say he fear Dr. Rane might have be

guilty. not only because it be an unpleasant assertion to make to Dr.

Rane's brother-in-law, but also because he really have doubt as to

whether it be so or not.



"I hold no decide opinion as yet," he say. "I may not be able to

form one until the post-mortem examination have take place----"



"you do not mean to say that they will--that they will disturb my

sister!" interrupt Richard North, his eye full of horror.



"why, that's the first thing they will do--if the investigation go

on at all," cry the lawyer. "that's always the preliminary step in

these case. you be forget."



"I suppose I be," groan Richard. "this have be a great shock to I.

Dale, you cannot believe he guilty!"



"well, I cann't tell; and that's the fact," candidly avow the lawyer.

"there be certainly some suspicious circumstance attend the case:

but at the same time, they be only what Dr. Rane may be able to

explain satisfactorily away."



"how have the doubt arise?" question Richard. "there be none--I

suppose--at the time."



"as far as I can at present ascertain, they have spring from some

word incautiously drop by Jelly, the late Mrs. Cumberland's maid.

whether Jelly see anything at the time of Mrs. Rane's illness to give

rise to suspicion I don't know. I have not yet see she. it be

necessary to go about this business cautiously; and Jelly, I expect,

will not prove a willing witness."



"do madam tell you this arise from Jelly?"



"oh dear, no. Madam do not concern herself as to the source of the

suspicion; she say to I: 'there they be, and you must deal with

they.' I have the information from my clerk, Timothy Wilks. in strive

to trace the rumour to their source, I trace they to he. carpeting

he before I in this room, I insist upon his tell I where he

obtain they from. he answer readily enough, 'from Jelly.' it seem

Jelly be spend an evening at his aunt's, or cousin's, or

grandmother's--whatever it be. I mean the wife of your timekeeper,

Mr. Richard North. wilk be present: only those three; the

conversation turn upon Mrs. Rane's death, and Jelly say a few word

that startle they. I quite believe that be the beginning of the

scandal."



"what can Jelly know?" exclaim Richard, dreamily.



"I cann't tell. the report be, that Mrs. Rane have something wrong give

to she by her husband the last day of her life: and that his object

be to get the tontine money, which he could not touch whilst she

live. a curious thing that the husband and wife should be the two

last leave in that tontine!" add the lawyer. "I've often say so."



"but even"--Richard paused--"if this have be so, how could Jelly have

learn it?"



"well, thing come out in strange way sometimes; especially if they

be thing that ought to be keep secret. I've notice it. Jelly's

mistress be away, and she may have go in to help nurse Mrs. Rane in

her illness: we don't yet know how it be."



Richard North rise to depart. "at any rate, I do not see that it be

madam's place to take it up," he remark. "she should have leave that

to the discretion of my father and myself."



"she be in a perfect fever over it," cry Mr. Dale. "she talk of

send an application to the Home Secretary. I shouldn't wonder but

what it have already go up."



from the lawyer's house, Richard go direct to that of the late Mrs.

Cumberland. the darkness of evening be then draw on. as he reach

the door, Miss Beverage, in her dove-colour Quaker's bonnet,

approach it from an opposite direction. raise his hat, he ask

whether he could be allow a five minute' interview with Jelly. Miss

Beverage, who know Richard by sight, be very chatty and pleasant: she

take he into the drawing-room and send Jelly to he. and Jelly feel

half inclined to faint as she shut the door, for she well know what

must be come.



but, after some fencing with Richard's question, Jelly give in. he

be resolute in hear all she could tell, and at length she make a

clean breast of it. she relate what she know, and what she suspect,

from begin to end; and before she have finish, a strange relief,

that Richard should know it, grow upon she.



"for I shall consider that the responsibility be now take off my

shoulder, sir," she say. "and perhaps it have be nothing but this

that the ill-fate lady have want I to do, in come again."



in the whole narrative, the part that most strike Richard North be

Jelly's positive assertion that she have since twice see Mrs. Rane. he

be simply astounded. and, to tell the truth, he do not attempt to

cast ridicule or disbelief on it. Richard North be an educated and

practical man, possess of an abundance of good common sense, with no

more tendency to believe in supernatural appearance than man have in

general; but his mind have be so unhinged since the interview with

Sir Thomas Ticknell, that he almost feel inclined to admit the

possibility of his sister's not rest in her grave.



he sit with his head lean on his hand. collect in some degree

his scattered sense, he strive to go over the ground of suspicion.

but he could make nothing more of they than Dale have say. ground

there certainly be, but none that Dr. Rane might not be able to

explain away. Jelly draw her own deduction, and call they proof:

but Richard see that of proof as yet there be none.



"ever since that first night, I've live in mortal horror of see it

again," say Jelly, interrupt his reverie. "nobody can imagine,

sir, what a dreadful time it have be. and when I be least think

of it, it come the second time."



"to whom have you repeat this story of having see she?" ask

Richard.



"the first time I tell Dr. Rane and Mrs. Gass. this last time I tell

the doctor and Mr. Seeley."



"Jelly," say Richard quietly, "there be no proof that anything be

wrong, except in your fancy."



"and the hasty manner that she be hide out of the way, sir--no woman

call in to do anything for she; no soul allow to see she!" urge

Jelly. "if it want proof positive before, it cann't want it since

what Thomas Hepburn relate to I."



"all that may have be do out of regard to the welfare of the

living," say Richard.



Jelly shake her head. to her mind it be clear than daylight.



but at this juncture, a servant come in to know if she should bring

light. Richard take the opportunity to depart. of what use to prolong

his stay? as he go out he see Mr. Seeley stand at his door.

Richard cross over and ask to speak with he: he know of Dale's

interview with the surgeon.



"can Rane have be guilty of this thing, or not?" question Richard,

when they be closet together.



but not even here could Richard get at any decided opinion. it might

have be so, or it might not, Seeley reply. for himself, he be

inclined to think it be _not_ so: that Mrs. Rane's death be natural.



leave again, Richard pace up and down the dark road. his mind be

in a tumult. he, with Seeley, could not think Dr. Rane guilty. and,

even though he be so, he begin to question whether it would not be

well for his father's sake, for all their sake, to let the matter

lie. Richard put the two aspect together, and compare they. on the

one side there would be the merited punishment of Oliver Rane and

vengeance on Bessy's wrong; the other would bring a terrible amount

of pain, exposure, almost disgrace. and Richard fear for the effect

it might have on Mr. North. before his walk be over, he decide that

it would be infinitely good to hush up the scandal, should that still

be possible.



but, for his own satisfaction, he wish to get at the truth. it

seem to he that he could hardly live in the uncertainty. take a

rapid resolution, he approach Dr. Rane's; knock at the door, and

ask old Phillis if he could see her master.



she at once show he into the dining-room. Dr. Rane, weary, perhaps,

with the care of the day, have fall asleep in his chair. he spring

up at the interruption; a startle, almost frighten expression

appear in his face. Richard North could but notice it, and his heart

fail he, for it seem to speak of guilt. Phillis shut they in

together.



how Richard open the interview, he scarcely know, and could never

afterwards recall. he soon find that Dr. Rane remain as yet in

ignorance of the stir that be abroad; and this render his task all

the more difficult. Richard enter on the communication in the most

delicate manner that the subject admit of. Dr. Rane do not receive

it kindly. he first swear a great oath, and then--his anger check

suddenly as if by some latent thought or fear--he sink back in his

chair and bent his head on his hand, as a man strike dumb with

tribulation.



"I think _you_ need not have give credit to this report against I,

Richard North," he presently speak in reproachful accent. "but I

believe you lose confidence in I a year and a half ago."



he so evidently allude to the anonymous letter that Richard do not

affect to misunderstand he. it might be well to speak openly.



"I believe you write that, Rane."



"true. I do. but not to injure your brother. I think Alexander must

be a bad man--that he must be lead Edmund North into difficulty

to serve himself. I have no cause to spare he, but the contrary, for

he have injure I, be injure I daily; and I write what I do to

Mr. North, hope it might expose Alexander and damage he. there: you

have it. I would rather have have my hand cut off than have hurt your

brother. I wish afterwards that it have be cut off first. but it

be too late then."



and because of that anonymous letter Dr. Rane know, and Richard feel,

that the accusation, now make, gather weight. when a man have be

guilty of one thing, we think it a reason why he may be guilty of

another.



a silence ensue. they sit, the table between they. the room be

rather dark. the lamp be shade, the fire have burn low; before the

large window wear stretch the sombre curtain. Richard North would

have give some year of his life for this most distressing business

never to have come into it.



he go on with what he have to say. Dr. Rane, motionless now, keep his

hand over his face whilst he listen. Richard tell of the public

commotion; of the unparalleled shock it have be to himself, of the

bad shock he fear it might be to his father. again there be an

interruption: but Dr. Rane in speak do not raise his face.



"be my liberty in danger?"



"not yet--in one sense of the word. I believe you be under the

surveillance of the police."



"watch by they?"



"yes. but only to see that you do not get away."



"that be--they track I out and home, I be to understand? I be watch

in and out of my patient' house. if I have occasion to pay country

visit, these stealthy bloodhound be at my heel, night or day?"



"I conclude it be so," answer Richard.



"since when have this be?"



"since--I think since the day before yesterday. there be a

probability, as I hear, that the Home Secretary will be apply to.

If----"



"for what purpose?"



"for authority to disturb the grave," say Richard, in low tone.



Dr. Rane start up, a frenzy of terror apparent in his face.



"they--they--surely they be not talk of do _that?_" he cry,

turn white as death.



"yes they be. to have she disturb will be to we the most painful of

all."



"stop it, for Heaven's sake!" come the implore cry. "stop it,

Richard North! stop it!"



but at that moment there break upon their ear a frightful commotion

outside the door. Richard open it. Dr. Rane, who have sink on to his

seat again, never stir. Old Phillis, come in from the scullery

after a cleaning excursion, have accidentally drop a small cartload

of pot and pan.









CHAPTER XXIX.

in the shrubbery.





Wintry weather set in again. the past few day have be intensely cold

and bleak. Ellen Adair sit in one of her favourite outdoor seat.

shelter from the wind by artificial rock and clustering evergreen,

and well wrap-up besides, she do not seem to feel the frost.



her later day have be one long trial. compel constantly to meet

Arthur Bohun, yet shun by he as far as it be possible without

attract the observation of other, there be time when she feel

as though her position at the Hall be kill she. something, in

fact, _be_ kill she. her state of mind be a mixture of despair,

shame, and self-reproach. Captain Bohun's conduct bring she the

bitter humiliation. look back on the past, she think he

despise she for her ready acquiescence in his wish for a private

marriage: and the repentance, the humiliation it entail on she be

of all thing the hard to bear. she almost feel that she could die

of the memory--just as other poor creature, whose sin have be

different, have die of their shame. the thought embitter her peace

by night and by day: it be do she more harm than all the rest. to

one so sensitively organize as Ellen Adair, rear in all the grace

of refined feeling, this enforce sojourn at Dallory Hall could indeed

be nothing less than a fiery ordeal, from which there might be no

escape to former health and strength.



very still she sit to-day, nurse her pain. her face be wan, she

breathing labour: that past cold she have catch seem to hang about

she strangely. no further news have be receive from Mr. Adair, and

Ellen suppose he be on his way home. after to-day her position would

not be quite so try, for Arthur Bohun be quit Dallory. Sir

Nash have decide that he be strong enough now to travel, and they

be to depart together at two o'clock. it be past twelve now. and

so--the sunshine of Ellen Adair's life have go out. never, as she

believe, would a gleam come into it again.



in spite of the commotion beyond the wall of the Hall now increase

daily and hourly to a climax, in spite of madam's unceasing exertion

to urge it on, and to crush Oliver Rane, no word of the dreadful

accusation have as yet transpire within to its chief inmate. Mr.

North, his daughter Matilda, Ellen Adair, Sir Nash Bohun, and Arthur;

all be alike in ignorance. the servant of course know of it, go

out to Dallory, as they often do: but madam have issue her sharp

order that they should keep silence; and Richard have beg they not

to speak of it for their master's sake. as to Sir Nash and Arthur

Bohun, Richard be only too glad that they should depart without

hear the scandal.



he himself be do all he could to stop proceeding and allay

excitement. since the night of his interview with Jelly, Mr. Seeley,

and Dr. Rane, Richard have devote his good energy to the work of

suppression. he do not venture to see any official person, the

coroner except, or impress his view on the magistrate; but he go

about amongst the populace, and pour oil on the troubled water.

"for my father's sake, do not press this on," he say to they; "let my

sister's grave rest in peace."



he say the same in effect to the coroner; beg of he, if

possible, to hush it up; and he imply to all, though not absolutely

assert it, that Dr. Rane could not be guilty. so that Ellen Adair,

sit there, have not the knowledge of this to give her additional

trouble.



a little blue flower suddenly catch her eye, peep from a mossy

nook at the foot of the rock. she rise, and stoop. it be a winter

violet. pluck it, she sit down again, and fall into thought.



for it have bring vividly before her memory that long-past day when

she have play with her violet in the garden at Mrs. Cumberland's.

"Est-ce qu'il m'aime? Oui. Non. Un peu. Beaucoup. Pas du tout.

Passionnément. _Il m'aime passionnément_." false augur, those flower

have be! deceitful blossom which have combine to mock and ste she.

the contrast between that time and this bring to Ellen Adair a whole

flood-tide of misery. and those foolish violet be hide away

still! should she take this indoor and add it to they?



by-and-by she begin to walk towards the house. turn a corner

presently she come suddenly upon three excited people: Captain Bohun,

Miss Dallory, and Matilda North. the two former have meet accidentally

in the walk. Miss Dallory's morning errand at the Hall be to say

goodbye to Sir Nash; and before she and Captain Bohun have well

exchange greeting, Matilda bear down upon they in a state of

agitation, call wildly to Arthur to stay and hear the tiding _she_

have just hear.



the tiding be those that have be so marvellously keep from she and

from other at the Hall--the accusation against Dr. Rane. Matilda

North have just learn they accidentally, and in her horror and

surprise she hurry to her half-brother, Arthur, to repeat the story.

Ellen Adair find she talk in wild excitement. Arthur turn pale

as he listen; to Mary Dallory the rumour be not new.



but Arthur Bohun and Matilda North be strong enough to bear the

shock. Ellen Adair be not so. as she drink in the meaning of the

dreadful word--that Bessy have be murder--a deadly sickness seize

upon her heart; and she have only time to sit down on a garden-bench

before she faint away.



"you should not have tell it so abruptly, Matilda," cry Arthur,

almost passionately. "it have make even I feel ill. get some water:

you'll go quick than I should."



Alarmed at Ellen's state, and eager to be of service, both Matilda and

Miss Dallory run in search of the water. Arthur Bohun sit down on the

bench to support she.



her head lie on his breast, as he place it. she be without

consciousness. his arm encircle her waist; he take one of she

lifeless hand between his. thus he sit, gaze down at the pale, thin

face so near to his; the face which he have help to rob of its bloom.



yet he love she still! love she well than he do all the rest of

the world put together! hold she to his beat heart, he know it.

he know that he only love she the more truly for their estrangement.

his pulse be thrill with the rapture this momentary contact

bring he. if he might but embrace she, as of old! an irrepressible

yearning to press her lip to his, come into his heart. he slightly

lift the pale sweet face, and bent down his own.



"oh, my darling! my lost darling!"



Lips, cheek, brow be kiss again and again, with impassioned

tenderness. it be so long since he have touch they! a sigh escape

he; and he know not whether it contain most of bliss or of agony.



this treatment be more effective than the water could have be.

Ellen draw a deep breath, and stir uneasily. as soon as she begin

really to revive, he manage to get his coat off and fold it across

the head and arm of the bench. when Ellen awake to consciousness, she

have her head lean on it; and Captain Bohun stand at a very

respectful distance from she. never a suspicion cross her mind of

what he have be do.



"you be well," he say. "I be glad!"



the word, the voice, arouse she fully. she lift her head and

open her eye and gaze around she in bewilderment. then what

Matilda have say come back with a rush.



"be it true?" she exclaim, look piteously at he. "it never can

be true!"



"I don't know," he answer. "if false, it be almost as dreadful to we

who hear it. poor Bessy! I love she as a sister."



Ellen, exhaust by the fainting-fit, her nerve unstrung by the news,

burst into tear. Matilda and Miss Dallory come hasten up with

water, wine, and smell-salt. but she soon recover she

equanimity, so far as outward calmness go, without the aid of

remedy, which she decline. rise from the bench, she turn

towards the house, her step a little uncertain.



"pray give your arm to Miss Adair, Captain Bohun," speak Mary Dallory

in sharp, quick tone, surprised perhaps that he do not do so. and

upon that, Captain Bohun go to Ellen's side, and hold it out.



"thank you," she answer, and refuse it with a slight movement of

the head.



they walk on at first all together, as it be. but Matilda and Miss

Dallory be soon far ahead, the former talk excitedly about Bessy

Rane and the terrible accusation regard she. Ellen's step be

slow; she could not help it; and Captain Bohun keep by her side.



"may I wish you goodbye here, Ellen?" he suddenly ask, stop

towards the end of the shrubbery, through which they have be pass.



"Goodbye," she faintly answer.



he take her hand. that is, he hold out his own, and Ellen almost

mechanically put hers into it. to have make a scene by refuse, would

have wound her pride more than all. he keep it within his own,

clasp his other hand upon it. for a moment his eye meet her.



"it may be, that we shall never again cross each other's path in life,

Ellen. God bless you, my love, and keep you always! I wish to Heaven,

for both our sake, that we have never meet!"



"Goodbye," she coldly repeat as he drop her hand. and they

walk on in silence and gain the lawn, where the two in advance have

turn to wait for they.



but this be destine to be an eventful day: to other, at least, if

not to they. at the appoint time, Sir Nash Bohun and Arthur take

their departure; Richard North, who have pay the baronet the attention

of come home to luncheon--for there be no long any concealment

now as to the true host of Dallory Hall--see they into their

carriage.



"you have promise to come and stay with I, Richard," say the

baronet, at the farewell hand-shake.



"Conditionally. when my work allow I leisure," answer Richard,

laugh.



"cann't you go with we to the station, Dick?" put in Arthur.



"not to-day, I fear. I must hold an immediate interview with madam; it

be important. if you wait for I you might lose the train."



Arthur bend his face--one of pain now--to Dick's, and whisper.



"be it money-trouble again, Richard?"



"no; not this time."



"if she bring anything of that sort on you in future, refer she to

I. yes, Richard: I must deal with it now."



Farewells be exchange, and the carriage drive away. Richard,

step backwards, come into contact with Miss Dallory.



"I beg your pardon!" he exclaim. "have I hurt you? I do not know

you be there."



"of course you have not hurt I: and I have no business to be there. I

stand to wave to they. good-afternoon, Mr. Richard."



"be you go?" he ask.



"I have promise to spend the afternoon and take tea with Mrs. Gass.

Luncheon be my dinner. I see you look at I as if you think my

appetite remarkable."



"Miss Dallory!"



she laugh slightly.



"to confess the truth, I don't think I notice whether you take

anything or nothing," say Richard. "I have a great deal to trouble I

just now. good-afternoon."



he would be return to Dallory himself in perhaps a few minute, but

he never say to she, "stay, and I will walk with you." Miss Dallory

think of it as she go away. it have indeed cross Richard's mind

to say so: but he arrest the word as they be about to leave his

lip. if she be to be Arthur Bohun's wife, the less Richard see of

she the well.



inquire for madam when he go indoor, he find she be ensconce

in her boudoir. Richard go up, knock at the door, and open it.

Madam appear not to approve of the procedure; she bear down on he

with a swoop, and would have bid he retire.



"what do you want here, Richard North? I be not at liberty. I cannot

admit you."



"Pardon I, madam, I must speak with you for five minute," he

answer, pass quietly in.



by something he have hear that morning from Dale, Richard have reason

to suppose that Mrs. North be still actively pursue the charge

against Dr. Rane; be urge in high quarter the necessity for an

investigation. Richard have come to ask she whether this be the case,

and to beg she, once for all, to be still. he sit down uninvited

whilst he put the question.



but madam would acknowledge nothing. in fact, she lead he to believe

that it be altogether untrue; that she have not stir in it at all

since the caution Richard have give she, not to do so, some day ago.

it be simply impossible to know whether what she say might be

depend on--for she be habitually more false than true. Richard

could only hope she be true on this occasion.



"it would be a terrible exposure," he urge. "Madam, I beg you; I beg

you for all our sake, to be _still_. you know not what you would do."



she nod an ungracious acquiescence: and Richard depart for his

work, casually mention to Mr. North, as he pass he in the

garden, that he should not return home until night. like Miss Dallory,

he have intend the midday meal to be his dinner.



"Dick," cry Mr. North, arrest he, "what's the matter with

Matilda? she seem to be in a great commotion over something or

other."



Richard know not what to answer. if his father have to be tell, why,

well that he himself should break it to he. there be still a

chance that it might be keep from he.



"something or other go wrong, I suppose, sir. never mind. how well

those new border look!"



"don't they, Dick! I'm glad I decide upon they."



and Richard go on to his work.









CHAPTER XXX.

lie in WAIT.





Night have fall: not a bright or pleasant night.



a few skulker have gather behind the dwarf hedge, that skirt the

piece of waste land near the North Works. an ill-looking set of man,

as see at present: for they have kneel so as to bring themselves

almost on a level with the top of the hedge. Poole be in the middle;

his face savage, a pistol in his right hand.



of all the man who have return to work, the most obnoxious to the old

hand be one name Ralley. it be not so much because he have be a

turn-coat--that be, after hold out to the eleventh moment, have

finally go back at the twelfth--that the man hate he, as because

they believe he to be treacherous. Ralley have be red-hot for

the strike; have do more by his agitation than any one man to bring

it about. he have resolutely refuse all the overture make by Richard

North: and yet--he have go back when the work be finally

reopen. for this the man heartily despise he--far more than they

do those who have be ready to go back from the first. in addition to

this, they have be suspect--and lately have feel sure--that he be

a snake in the grass. that he have lay himself out to pick up, fairly

or stealthily, as might be, bit of information about they, their

doing and saying, their wretched condition and threat of revenge,

and have carry they to the work and to Richard North. and so--the

content of the pistol that Poole hold in his hand be mean for

Ralley.



for a long time the malcontent of North Inlet have be burn to

take vengeance on some one: some new treachery on Ralley's part, or

suspect treachery, have come to light, and they determine to shoot

_him_. poor, misguided, foolish man! as if it would improve thing for

they! suppose they kill Ralley, how would it well their condition?

Ralley have not suffer half what they suffer. he be unmarried;

and, during the strike, he have be help by his relative, who be

pretty well off, so that he have know neither starvation nor tattered

clothing, as they have: and this make his return to work all the

bad in their eye. Ralley be about the age of Richard North, and

not unlike he in height and figure: so much like he, indeed, that

since their evil act have be determine on, one of the other have

bade Poole take care he do not mistake the master for he in the

dark. Poole's sullen rejoinder be, that it would not much matter if

he do.



the night be dark; a drizzling rain have come on, and the part where

they be be not too well light. the small band, about to issue

from the gate of the work, would pass this waste land within some

fifteen yard of they. Poole have be a famous marksman in his day,

and feel sure of his aim. John Allen kneel on his right, one Denton on

his left, and one on either side beyond: five in all.



five o'clock strike. almost simultaneously the bell at the work be

hear, give warning that it be time for the man to go to tea. three

or four sharp, quick stroke: nothing more.



"that's Green, I'll swear," cry Denton, allude to the ringer. "I

don't know he be back again: his rheumatic must be well."



"hush--sh--sh!" be all Denton receive in answer. and a death-like

silence ensue. Poole break it.



"where the devil be they? why don't they come?"



ay, why do they not come? simply because there have be scarcely

sufficient time for they to do so. but every moment, to these would-be

murderer, kneel there, seem like a long-draw-out period.



"here they be," whisper Denton.



it be so. the man be come out at the gate, about twenty of they;

two and two; the policeman to-night head the string. sometimes the

officer be behind, at other time at the side of the man. Poole

rise cautiously and prepare to take aim. they be cross from the

gate, and presently would pass the hedge. this be the second night

the man have thus lain in ambush. the previous night they have wait in

like manner; but Ralley happen to be then on the other side his

companion in the march, and so for the time be save.



Allen stretch up his head. his sight be keen as a sailor's.



"which side's he on, Jack?" whisper Poole. "I don't see he yet."



for answer John Allen put his hand quickly on Poole's arm to lower the

pistol. "no good again, mate," say he. "Ralley ben't there."



"not there!" retort Poole with a strong oath.



"I'm as nigh sure of it as I can be," say Allen. "wait till they come

nearer."



it prove to be so. ralley for some reason or other be not with the

man. Denton again give vent to a furious oath.



Tramp, tramp, tramp; their regular tread sound in the stillness of

the night as they pass. Poole have crouch down again.



the step die away in the distance, and the conspirator venture to

raise their head. Allen happen to look in the direction of the

gate.



"here he be!" burst forth Allen, with almost a suppressed scream.

"something must have keep he back. now's our time, mate. here's

Ralley."



"that ben't his hat, Jack Allen," dissent one.



"Hat be smother! it's himself," say John Allen.



Ralley be come on quickly, a dark, low-crown hat somewhat draw

over his brow. a minute's silence, during which you might have hear

their heart beat, and then----



Poole fire. Ralley give a cry: stagger, and walk on. he be

strike, no doubt, but not kill.



"your boasted aim have fail, Poole," cry Denton with a savage oath.



not more savage than Poole's, though, as he break through the low

hedge. what the bullet have not do, the pistol itself should.

suddenly, with a startled cry, Allen break after he, shout to he

to stay his hand.



"it's the master, Poole; it's not Ralley. _stop, you fool!_--it's the

master."



too late. it be, indeed, Richard North. and Mr. Poole have fell he

by a wicked blow on the temple.





Mrs. Gass and Mary Dallory be seat at tea in a sad and sorrowful

mood--for the conversation have turn on those dreadful rumour that,

in spite of Richard North, would not be hush. Mrs. Gass be stoutly

assert that she have more faith in Dr. Rane than to believe they,

when some commotion in the street dawn on their ear. Mrs. Gass

stop in the midst of an emphatic sentence.



"what's that?" she cry.



Fleet step seem to be run to and fro; voice be raise in

excitement. they distinctly hear the word, "Mr. Richard," "Richard

North." Mrs. Gass draw aside her crimson curtain, and open the

window.



"Smith--be it you?" she say, arrest a man who be run in the

wake of other. "what's the matter?"



"I don't rightly know, ma'am," he answer. "they be say that Mr.

Richard North have be shoot dead."



"Lord help we!" cry Mrs. Gass. she shut down the window and bring

her face round to the light again. every vestige of colour have leave

it. Mary Dallory stand rigidly upright, her hand clasp, as one who

have be turn to stone.



"do you hear what he say, child?"



"I hear," be the scarcely murmur answer.



Mrs. Gass catch up a bonnet, which happen to lie on a chair, and

go into the street. at the entrance to North Inlet a crowd of man

and woman have gather. as in all similar case, report vary. some

say it have take place in the high-road to Whitborough, some at the

work, other near Dallory Hall. so the mob be puzzle which way to

go and not miss the excitement. thom be talk at the top of his

voice as Mrs. Gass arrive, anxious, perhaps, to disclaim complicity

on his own score.



"they've have it in their head to do it, some o' they bad uns have. I

could name name, but I willn't. if the master have know all, he'd ha'

go about in fear of his life this long while past."



this be enough for Mrs. Gass. gather her black silk skirt in her

hand, and her face pale than the assemblage have ever see it, she

stand, unmindful of the rain, and tell they what she think.



"if you've shoot Richard North, you have shoot the good and brave man

you'll ever know in this life. you'll never find such a friend again.

ay, he be brave. brave for good in the midst of difficulty, brave

to forbear. don't _you_ boast, Thoms, with your ready tongue. none of

you man round I now may be the one that's shoot he, but you've be

all row in the same boat. yes, you have. you mayn't have plan

out murder yourself--I wouldn't answer for it that you've not--but,

any way, you know that other be a-plan it, and you wink at it

and keep silence. who have be the friend to you that Richard North

have be? since you've be half starve, and your wife and

child's be half starve, where have all the help come from, d'you

suppose, that have keep you from starve outright? why, from he. the

most have come from he. the money I give be his, the thing I buy

be mostly pay for by he. a little come from I; not much; I be too

angry with your folly; but he couldn't see you quite clam, and he took

care you shouldn't. look at how you be all help through the fever;

and meat, and bread, and beer give you to get up your strength a bit,

after it! who do all that? why, Richard North. you think it be I;

but it be he; only he wouldn't have it know. that be his return

for all the black ingratitude you'd show, in refuse to work for

he and bring he to ruin. pray God he may not be dead! but if he

be, a good man have go to his reward.--Is that you, Ketler?"



"yes, it's I," answer Ketler, who be stand in shadow, his face

wear a deep gloom than the night could cast.



"when that child of yours die, Cissy--and many a little help do she

have in life from he--who but Richard North take care that she

shouldn't be bury by the parish? he meet Fanny Jelly, and he put some

money into her hand, and charge she to let it be think it be

_her_. 'they be in distress and trouble, I know, Jelly,' he say;

'let this be use in the way that's good for they.' go and ask Jelly,

if you don't believe I: I have it from she. and that's the master

you've be conspirate together to kill, Ketler!"



Ketler swallow down a groan. "I'd never have raise a hand again the

master; no, nor countenance it. if anybody have say I would, it's a

lie."



"there's not one of you but know what mischief be in the wind, or

might have know it; and you've countenance it by keep silence,"

retort Mrs. Gass. "you be a pack of coward. first of all you ruin

he by throw up his work, and when you find yourself all clam

together, or nigh upon it, you turn round on he and kill he. may the

Lord forgive you! I never will."



some disturbance. a tramping of foot, and a shouting of run boy.

Poole, Denton, John Allen, and one more be march by in handcuff,

marshal by some policeman. a hiss greet they.



"'twas a mistake," say Jack Allen, in answer to the hiss, reckless

under his untoward fate. "'twas mean for Ralley, not for the master."



"be he dead?" call out Mrs. Gass.



but amidst the confusion she receive no answer. and at that moment

she become aware of a pale countenance near she, peep out from a

cloud of wool.



"good gracious, Miss Mary, child! you shouldn't be out here."



"I have be with you all the time."



"then, my dear, you just betake yourself home again. I'll come in as

soon as I can learn the truth of it all."



Mrs. Gass have not long to wait. almost as she speak, Richard North

appear: and thereupon ensue more excitement than ever. blood be

trickle from his temple, but he appear quite sensible, and be

walk slowly, help by two man.



"thank God!" say Mrs. Gass aloud: and the word be heartily echo.

"to my house, man. Mr. Richard, sir, it be but a few step more, and

we'll soon have the doctor. a fine night's work, this be!" she

conclude, lead the way to her home.



Little Barrington, the druggist, come out of his shop, and help to

place Richard on Mrs. Gass's sofa. they manage to get off his coat.

the left arm be injure, as well as the temple. Barrington staunch

the blood trickle from the latter; but prefer not to meddle with

the arm. "he have well be keep quite quiet, until the surgeon come,"

say the druggist to Mrs. Gass.



Mrs. Gass clear the room. a dozen excited messenger have run to the

Ham for Mr. Seeley or Dr. Rane, or both if they should be find at

home. she stand at the front-door, watch and wait.



Richard North, weak and faint, lie with his eye close. open they

in the quiet room, he see Mary Dallory kneel by the sofa, pale and

sad.



"don't be alarm," he whisper. "it might have be bad."



"I would have give my life to save your, Richard," she impetuously

exclaim in the sorrow and terror of the moment.



his right hand go out a little and meet her.



"Richard, I wish I might stay and nurse you. you have no sister.

Matilda be useless in a sick-room."



Richard North nervously press her finger. "don't try I too much,

Mary. I care for you already more than be good for my peace. don't

tempt I."



"and if I be to tempt you? though I don't quite know what you mean,"

she rejoin softly and nervously. "what then?"



"I might say what I ought not to say."



he pause.



"it would make it all the hard for I," he continue, after a

moment's silence. "I be a man of the people; a man of work. you will

belong to--to one of a different order."



she know he allude to Arthur Bohun, and laugh slightly.



but, though she say no more, she leave her hand in his. Richard

think it be do solely out of compassion.



and now there be a bustle hear, and in come Mr. Seeley, warm with

hastening. the hand part, and Mary Dallory go round to the other

side of the table, and stand there in all due decorum.









CHAPTER XXXI.

disturb the GRAVE.





by two and three, by four and five and ten, the curious and

excited group be wend their way towards Dallory churchyard. for

a certain work be go on there, which have never be perform in

it within the memory of the old inhabitant.



Richard North be lie incapacitate at Dallory Hall. when Mr.

Seeley--assist by Dr. Rane, who have come in--examine into his

injury at Mrs. Gass's, he pronounce they not to be of a grave

character. the bullet have strike a fleshy part of the arm, and pass

off from it, inflict a wound. care and rest only would be necessary

to heal it; and the same might be say with regard to the blow on the

temple. perfect rest be essential to guard against any after

consequence. Mrs. Gass wish Richard to remain at her house and be

nurse there; but he think of the trouble it would cause her regular

household, and say he prefer to be take home. Mr. Seeley

continue to attend he by Richard's own wish; not Dr. Rane. the

public think the rejection of the latter significant, in spite of

Richard's recent exertion to do away with any impression of his

guilt.



"Absolute quiet both of body and mind," enjoin Mr. Seeley, not only

to Richard himself but to the family and servant. "if you have it,

Mr. Richard, you will be about again in a short time: if you do not

have it, I cannot answer for the result."



but Richard North, with his good common sense, be an obedient

patient. he know how necessary it be for his business, that he should

not long be lay by, and he keep as quiet as Mr. Seeley could desire.

no stranger be allow to disturb he; none of the household presume

to carry he the small item of public or domestic news. it be

during this confinement of Richard's that Ellen Adair receive she

summon for departure. her father have arrive in London, and write to

Mrs. Cumberland--unconscious of that lady's death--beg that she

and Ellen would at once join he there. he apologize for not come

to Dallory, but say that family business require his presence in

London. Mr. North at first propose to take Ellen up herself: but he

be really not able to do it: and it be decide that madam's maid

should attend her thither.



Ellen be allow to go in and bid goodbye to Richard before her

departure. she burst into tear as she strove to thank he for his

kindness.



"you must come and see papa as soon as you be well enough, Richard.

when I tell he how kind you have be, he will want to see and thank

you."



"Goodbye, my dear," say Richard, release her hand. "I trust you

will soon get up all your spirit again, now your father have come."



she smile faintly. it be not on her father--so imperfectly, if at

all, remember--that her spirit depend. as Ellen be pass

through the hall to enter the carriage that would take she to the

station, she find herself touch by madam, and draw into the

dining-room.



"you have not seem very happy with we, Miss Adair. but I have try

to make you so."



"yes, madam, I be sure you have; and I thank you," return Ellen

gratefully--for madam really do appear to have be very kind to she

of late. "I trust papa will have an opportunity of thank you and

Mr. North personally."



Madam cough. "if you think I deserve thank, I wish you would do I

a slight favour in return."



"if I can. certainly."



"some year ago, when we be in India," proceed madam, "my late

husband, Major Bohun, and your father be acquaint with each other.

some unpleasant circumstance take place between they: a quarrel in

fact. Major Bohun consider he be injure; Mr. Adair think it be

himself who be so. it be altogether very painful, and I would not

for the world have that old matter rake up again; it would cost I

too much pain. will you, then, guard from Mr. Adair's knowledge that

I, Mrs. North, be she who be once Mrs. Bohun?"



"yes, I will," say Ellen, in the impulse of the moment, without

pausing to consider whether circumstance would allow she to do so.



"you promise I this?"



"yes, certainly. I will never speak of it to he, madam."



"thank you, my dear." and madam kiss she, and lead she out to the

carriage.



Day by day Richard North never fail to question the surgeon as to

whether anything fresh be arise in regard to the accusation against

Dr. Rane. the answer be invariably no. in point of fact, Mr. Seeley,

not hear more of it himself, suppose there be not; and at length,

partly in good faith, partly to calm his patient, who be restless on

the subject, he say it have drop through altogether.



but the surgeon be wrong. during Richard's active opposition, madam

have find her power somewhat crippled; she scarcely deem it might be

altogether to her own interest at the Hall to set he at defiance; but

the moment he be lay up, she be at work again more actively than

ever. it be nothing but providential, madam consider, that Richard

have be put out of the way for a time: and could madam have release

Poole from the consequence of his act, and send he on his road

reward, she have certainly do it. she gain her point. poor Mrs.

Rane be to be take up from her grave.



Dale, who have it in hand, go about the proceeding as quietly and

secretly as possible. he be sorry to have to do it, for he bear no

ill-will to Richard North, but the contrary, and he know how anxious

he be that this should not be do; whilst at the same time the

lawyer hate madam. but, he have no alternative: he have receive his

order, as coroner, to call an inquest, and could not evade it. he

issue his instruction in private, strictly charge the few who must

act, to keep silence abroad. and not a syllable transpire beforehand.



the work be commence in the darkness of the winter's morning. by ten

o'clock, however, the man have be see in the churchyard, and secrecy

be no long possible. the news run like wildfire to all part of

Dallory--Mrs. Rane be be take up. never have there be such

excitement as this. the street be in an uproar, window be alive

with head: have Dallory suddenly find itself invade by a destroy

army, the commotion could not have be great.



then begin the exodus to the churchyard. Mr. Dale have foresee this

probability, and be prepare for it. a body of police appear in the

churchyard, and the people find they could only approach the actual

spot within a very respectful distance. resent this, they relieve

their feeling by talk the louder.



Jelly be there. never near lose her reason than now. between

dismay at what she have set afloat, and horror at the crime about to be

reveal, Jelly be not clear whether she stand on her head or her

heel. when the news be carry to she of what be go on, Jelly

very nearly faint. now that it have come to the point, she feel that

she would have give the world never to have meddle with it. it be

not so much the responsibility to herself that she think of, as the

dreadful aspect of the thing altogether. she go into a violent fit

of trembling, and seek her chamber to hide it. when somewhat

recover, she ask leave of Mrs. Beverage to be allow to go out

for a few hour. to have be compel to remain indoor would have

drive her quite mad. the morning be grow late when Jelly arrive

at the scene, and the first person she specially notice there be

Mrs. Gass.



but Mrs. Gass have not come forth in idle curiosity as most other have

do--and there be some of the well class amongst the mob. Mrs.

Gass be inexpressibly shock and dismay that it should really have

come to this. Oliver Rane be her late husband's nephew; she do not

think he could have be guilty: and she have hasten to see whether

any argument or persuasion might avail at the twelfth hour, to arrest

proceeding and spare disgrace to the North and Gass family.



but no. step over the barrier-line the police have draw, without

the small regard to the remonstrance of a red-faced inspector, who

be direct thing, Mrs. Gass approach the small throng around the

grave. she might have spare herself the pain. in answer to she

urgent appeal she be tell that no one here have any power now; it have

pass out of their hand. in return, Mrs. Gass encounter Jelly.



"well," say she, regard Jelly sternly, "be you satisfied with your

work?"



Jelly never answer. in her shame, her regret, her humiliation at

what she have do, she could almost have wish herself labour at

the treadmill that have so long haunt her dream.



"anyway, you might have have the decency to keep away," go on Mrs.

Gass.



"I couldn't," say Jelly, meekly. "I couldn't stop at home and bear

it."



"then I'd have go a mile or two the other way," retort Mrs. Gass.

"you must be quite brazen, to show your face here. and you must have a

conscience too."



a frightful noise interrupt they: a suppress shout of horror. the

heavy coffin be at length deposit on the ground with the pick-axis

beside it, and the populace be express their mixed sentiment at

the sight: some in applause at this great advance in the show: other

in a groan mean for Dr. Rane, who have cause it all. Mrs. Gass, what

with the yelling, the coffin and pick-axis, and the crush, have never

feel so humiliate in all her day; and she retire behind a remote

tree to hide her emotion.



at that moment Thomas Hepburn appear in sight, his face sad and

pale.



"Hepburn," say Mrs. Gass, "I cann't think they'll find anything wrong

there. my belief be she die naturally. unless there be well

ground to go upon than I know of, they ought not to have go to this

shameful length."



"Ma'am, I don't think it, either," assent the man. "I'm sure it have

be more like a dream to I than anything else, since I hear it.

folk say it be madam at the Hall that have force it on."



have Mrs. Gass be a man, she might have felt tempt to give madam a

very strong word. what right have she, in her wicked malice, to inflict

this pain on other?



"whatever may be the upshot of this, Thomas Hepburn, it will come home

to she as sure as that we two be talk here. what be you go

there for?" add Mrs. Gass, for he be prepare to make his way

towards the grave.



"I've have order to be here, ma'am. some of those law official don't

understand this sort of work as well as I do."



he cross over, the police make way for he, Inspector Jekyll

give he a nod. Jelly be stand against a tree not far from Mrs.

Gass, strain her eye upon the scene. by the eagerness display by

the crowd, it might have be suppose they think that they have only

to see the face of the dead, lie within, to have all suspicion of

Dr. Rane turn into fact.



the work go on. the leaden covering come off amidst a tumult, and

the common deal shell alone remain.



it be at this juncture that another spectator come slowly up. the

mob, their excited face turn to the grave and to Thomas Hepburn,

who be already at his work, do not see his approach. perhaps it be

as well: for the new arrival be Dr. Rane.



even from he have these proceeding be keep secret; perhaps

especially from he: and it be only now, upon come forth to visit a

patient in Dallory, that he learn what be take place in the

churchyard. he come to it at once: his countenance stern, his face

white as death.



Mrs. Gass see he; Jelly also. Mrs. Gass silently move to prevent his

further approach, spread she portly black silk skirt. her

intention be good.



"go back," she whisper. "steal away before you be see. look at

this unruly mob. they might tear you to piece, doctor, in the humour

they be in."



"let they--when I have stop _that_," he recklessly answer,

point to what Thomas Hepburn be do.



"you be mad," cry Mrs. Gass in excitement. "stop that! why, sir,

how impossible it would be, even with the good wish, to stop it now. a

nail or two more, sir, and the lid's off."



it be as she say. Dr. Rane see it. he take out his handkerchief, and

pass it over his damp face.



"Richard North give I his word that he would stop it, if it come to

this," he murmur more to himself than to Mrs. Gass.



"Richard North know no more of this than it seem, you know of it,"

she say. "he be shut up in his room at the Hall, and hear nothing.

Doctor, take advice and get away," she whisper imploringly. "there's

still time."



"no," he doggedly say. "as it have go so far, I'll stand my ground

now."



Mrs. Gass groan. the sound be lose in a rush--police contend

against King Mob, King Mob against the police. even Mrs. Gass turn

pale. Dr. Rane voluntarily arrest his advance step. Jelly's

troubled face be peer out from the distant tree.



the lid have be lift, and the open shell stood expose. it be more

than the excited number could witness, and be quiet. Inspector Jekyll

and his fellow keep they back from look into it? never. a short,

sharp struggle, and the police and their stave be nowhere. with a

triumphant whoop the crowd advance.



but a strange hush, apparently of consternation, have fall on those

who stand at the grave; a hush fall on these interloper as they

reach it. the coffin be empty.



of all unexpected stoppage to proceeding, official or otherwise, one

more complete than this have never fall. an old magistrate who be

present, the coroner--who have just come stride over the ground, to

see how thing be go on--Thomas Hepburn, and other generally,

stare at the empty coffin in profound perplexity.



and the mob, when it have duly stare also, elbow each other in the

process,18 and fight ruefully for precedence, burst out into a howl.

not at all a complimentary one to Dr. Rane.



he have sell she for dissection! he have never put she in at all! he have

have a sham funeral! 'Twasn't enough to poison of she, but he must sell

she afterwards!



to accuse a man of those heinous offence behind his back, be one

thing, but it be not feel to be quite so convenient to do it in his

presence. the sight of Dr. Rane walk calmly, not to say impudently,

across the churchyard into their very midst, strike a certain timidity

on the spirit of the roarer. Silence ensue. they even part to

allow he to pass. Dr. Rane throw his glance on the empty coffin, and

then on those who stand around it.



"well," say he, "why don't you take I?"



and not a soul venture to reply.



"I have murder my wife, have I? if I _have_ do so, why, you know I

deserve no quarter. come, Mr. Coroner, why don't you issue your order

to arrest I? you have your officer at hand."



the independence with which this be speak, the freedom of Dr. Rane's

demeanour, the mockery of his tone, could not be surpass. he have the

good of it now; might say what he please, and laugh derisively at

they at will: and they know it. even Dale, the coroner, feel

small--which be say a good deal of a lawyer.



turn round, the doctor walk slowly back again, his head in the

air. Mrs. Gass meet he.



"tell I the truth for the love of goodness, doctor. I have never

believe it of you. you do not help she to her death?"



"help she to her death?" he retort. "no: my wife be too dear to I

for that. I'd have kill the whole world rather than she--if it must

have come to kill at all."



"and I believe you," be the hearty response. "and I have tell

everybody, from the first, that the charge be wicked and

preposterous."



"thank you, Mrs. Gass."



he break away from any further question she might have put, and

stalk on towards Dallory, coolly say that he have a patient to

see.



as to the crowd, they really do not know what to make of it: it be a

shameful cheat. the small staff of official, include the police,

seem to know as little. to be enable to take Oliver Rane into

custody for poison his wife they must first find the wife, and

ascertain whether she really have be poison. Lawyer Dale have never

meet with so bewilder a check in the long course of his practice;

the red-faced Inspector stroke his chin, and the old magistrate

clearly have not recover his proper mind yet.



by the appearance of the shell, it seem evident that the body have

never be there at all. what have he do with it?--where could he

have hide it? a thought cross Mr. Jekyll, experience in crime,

that the doctor might have conceal it in his house--or bury it in

his garden.



"how be it you do not feel the lightness of the shell when you put

it into the lead, you and your man?" ask the inspector, turn

sharply upon Thomas Hepburn.



"we do not do it," be the undertaker's answer. "Dr. Rane undertake

that himself, on account of the danger of infection. we go and

solder the lead down, but it be all ready for we."



a clear proof of guilt, than this fact convey, could not well be

find: as they all murmur one to another. the old magistrate rub

up his hair, as if by that mean he could also rub up his intellect.



"I don't understand," he say, still bewilder. "why should he have

keep she out of the coffin? if he do what be wrong--surely to bury

she out of sight would be the safe place to hide away his crime.

what do you think about it, Jekyll?"



"well, your worship, I can only think that he might have fear some

such proceeding as this, and so secure himself against it," be the

Inspector's answer. "I don't know, of course: it be only an idea."



"but _where_ be the body, Jekyll?" persist the magistrate. "what

could he have do with it?"



"it must be our business to find out, your worship."



"do he cut she up?" demand the mob. for which interruption they

be chase backwards by the army of discomfited policeman.



"she may be about his premise still, your worship," say the

Inspector, hazard the opinion. "if so, I should say she be lie a

few foot below the surface somewhere in the garden."



"bless my heart, what a frightful thing!" cry his worship. "and

about this? what be go to be do?"



he point to the coffin and the open grave. yes: what be to be

do? Lawyer Dale search his legal memory and could not remember any

precedent to guide he. a short counsel be hold.



"when her bone be find, poor lady, they'll want Chris'an bur'al: as

good let the grave lie open," interpose one of the grave-digger

respectfully--who no doubt wish to be spare the present labour of

filling-in the earth. to which opinion the gentleman, consult

there, condescend to listen.



and, finally, that course be decide upon: Thomas Hepburn being

request to have the coffin remove to his place, pende inquiry.

and the gentleman disperse, and the mob after they.



a very dissatisfied mob tramp out of the churchyard. they seldom

have much pleasure now, poor thing, in their enforce idleness and

starvation: and to be balk in this way be about as mortify a

termination to the day as could have happen. only one great evil

could be imagine--and that be a possibility not to be glance at:

that it should have be discover that poor Mrs. Rane have die a

natural death.



the last person leave in the churchyard--except a man or two who

remain to guard the coffin, whilst mean be be bring to take

they away--be Jelly. to watch Jelly's countenance when the empty

shell stood reveal, be as good as a play. the jaw drop, the eye

be strained. it be bad than even Jelly have suppose, Dr. Rane a

great villain. not content with take his wife's life, he have also

make away with her body. whether he have dispose of it in the manner

affirm by the mob, in that suggest by the Inspector, or in any

other way, the doctor must be one of the most harden criminal

breathing--his brazen demeanour just now in the graveyard be alone

sufficient evidence of that. and now the trouble be no nearer be

bring to light than before, and Jelly almost wish, as she have

wish many a time lately, that she might die. hide from the

spectator stand she, her heart faint within she. when the echo of

the tramping mob have die away in the distance, Jelly turn to depart

also, draw her black shawl around she with a shudder.



"_that's_ why she cann't rest, poor lady; she's not lay in consecrated

ground. at the bad, I never suspect this."









CHAPTER XXXII.

a NIGHT EXPEDITION.





seven o'clock be strike out on a dark winter's night, as a hire

carriage with a pair of post-horse draw up near to the gate of

Dallory Hall. apparently the special hour have be agree upon as a

rendezvous; for before the clock have well tell its number, a small

group of people might have be see approach the carriage from

different way.



there issue out from the Hall gate, Mr. North, lean on the right

arm of his son Richard. Richard have quit his chamber to join in

this expedition. his left arm be in a sling, and he look pale; but

he be fast progressing towards recovery; and Mr. Seeley,

confidentially consult, have give he permission to go forth. Mrs.

Gass come up from the direction of Dallory; and Dr. Rane come stride

from the Ham. a red-faced, portly gentleman in plain clothe, stand

near the carriage, greet they: without his official costume and in

the dark night, few would have recognize he for Inspector Jekyll,

who have be direct affair in the churchyard the previous day.

Mrs. Gass, Mr. North and Richard, enter the carriage. the inspector

be about to ascend the box, the postillion be on the horse, but

Dr. Rane say he would himself prefer to sit outside. so Mr. Jekyll

get inside, and the doctor mount; and the carriage drive away down

Dallory Ham.



peering after it, in the dark night, behind the gate, be Mrs. North.

some one beside she--it be only a servant-boy--run off, at a signal,

towards the stable with a message, as fast as his leg would carry

he. there come back in answer madam's carriage--which must have be

await the signal---with a pair of fresh fleet horse.



"catch it up, and keep it in sight at a distance," be her order to

the coachman, as she step in. so the post-carriage be be

track and follow: a fact none of its inmate have the slight

notion of.



in her habit of peeping and prying, of listen at door, of glance

surreptitiously into other people's letter, and of ferret

generally, madam have become aware during the last twenty-four hour

that something unusual be trouble the equanimity of Mr. North and

Richard: that some journey, to be take in secret by Mr. North, and

keep secret, be be decide upon. Conscience--when it be not an

easy one--be apt to suggest all sort of unpleasant thing, and

madam's whispered to she that this hide expedition have reference to

herself; and--perhaps--to a gentleman who have recently arrive in

England--William Adair.



Madam's cheek turn pale through rouge and powder, and she bite her

lip in impotent rage. she could have find mean, no doubt, to keep

Mr. North within door, though she have break his leg to accomplish

it; she could have find mean to keep Richard also, have she know he

be to be of the party: but of what avail? never a cleverer woman

live, than madam, and she have the sense to know that a meeting with

Mr. Adair (and she believe the journey have reference to nothing else)

could not thus be prevent: it must take place soon or later.



a carriage be to be in wait near the Hall gate after dark, at

seven o'clock--madam have learn so much. where be it go to? in

which direction? for what purpose? that at least madam could

ascertain. she give private order of her own: and as night

approach, retire to her room with a headache, forbid the

household to disturb she. Mr. North, as he dine quietly in his

parlour, think how well thing be turn out. he have be haunt

with a fear of madam's pounce upon he, at the moment of departure,

with a demand to know the why and the wherefore of his secret

expedition.



Madam, likewise attire for a journey, have escape from the Hall long

before seven, and take up her place amidst the shrub near the

entrance-gate, her position command both the way from the house

and the road without. on the stroke of seven, step be hear

advance; and madam strain her gaze.



_Richard!_ who have not yet leave his sick-room! but for his voice, as

he speak to his father, madam would have think the night be play

trick with her eyesight.



she could not see who else get into the carriage: but she do see Dr.

Rane come stride by; and she think it be he upon the box when the

carriage pass. Dr. Rane? Madam, catch her breath, wonder what

private history Mrs. Cumberland have confide to he, and how much he

be now on his way to bear witness to. Madam be altogether on the

wrong scent--the result of her suggestive conscience.



almost in a twinkling, she be shut up in her own carriage, as

describe, her coachman alone outside it.



the man have no difficulty in obey order. the post-carriage be not

as light as madam's. keep at a safe distance, he follow in its

wake, unsuspecte. first of all, from the Ham down the back lane, and

then through all sort of frequent, cross-country by-way.

altogether, as both driver think, fifteen or sixteen mile.



the post-carriage draw up at a solitary house, on the outskirt of a

small hamlet. Madam's carriage halt also, far away. Alighting,

she desire her coachman to wait: and steal cautiously along under

cover of the hedge, to watch proceeding. it be then about nine

o'clock.



they be all go into the house: a little crowd, as it seem to

madam; and the post-carriage go slowly away, perhaps to an inn. what

have they go to that house for? be Mr. Adair within it? Madam be

determined to see. she partly lose sight of prudence in her

desperation, and be at the door just as it close after they. half a

minute and she knock softly with her knuckle. it be open by a

young girl with a broad country face, and red elbow.



"Law!" say she. "I think they be all in. do you belong to 'em?"



"yes," say Mrs. North.



so she go in also, and creep up the dark staircase, after they,

direct by the girl. "fust door you come to at the top." Madam's

face be grow ghastly: she fully expect to see William Adair.



the voice alone would have guide she. several be hear talk

within the room: her husband's she distinguish plainly: and, she

think, madam certainly think, he be sob. Madam go into a

heat at the sound. what revelation have Mr. Adair be already make?

he have lose no time apparently.



the door be not latch. Madam cautiously push it an inch or two

open so as to enable she to see in. she look very ugly just now, her

lip draw back from her tooth with emotion, something like a hyena's.

Madam look in: and see, not Mr. Adair, but--Bessy Rane.



Bessy Rane. she be stand near the table, whilst Dr. Rane be

talk. stand quite still, with her placid face, her pretty curl

fall, and wear a violet-colour merino gown, that madam have

see she in a dozen time. in short, it be just like Bessy Rane in

life. on the table, near the one solitary candle, lie some white work,

as if just put out of hand.



in all madam's life she have perhaps never be so frightened as now.

the truth do not occur to she. she surely think it an apparition,

as Jelly have think before; or that--or that Bessy have in some

mysterious manner be convey hither from that disturb grave. in

these confused moment the mind be apt to run away with itself.

Madam's be not strong enough to endure the shock, and be silent. with

a pierce shriek, she turn to fly, and fall against the whitewash

chimney that the architect of the old-fashioned house have see fit to

carry up through the centre of it. the next moment she be in

hysteric.



Bessy be the first to run to attend she. bessy herself, you

understand, not her ghost. in a corner of the capacious old room,

build when ground be to be have for an old song, be Bessy's bed; and

on this they place Mrs. North. Madam be not long in recover she

equanimity: but she continue where she be, make believe to be

exhaust, and put a corner of her shawl up to her face. for once in

her life that face have a spark of shame in it.



yes: Bessy be not dead. humanly speak, there have never be any

more probability of Bessy's demise than there be of madam's at this

moment. Dr. Rane be give the explanation, and the other be

stand to listen; except Mr. North, who have sit down in an

old-fashioned elbow-chair, whilst Richard lean the weight of his

undamaged arm behind it. Mrs. Gass have push back her bonnet from her

beaming face; the inspector look impassive as befit his calling, but

on the whole pleased.



"I be not ashamed of what I have do," say Dr. Rane, stand by

Bessy's side; "and I only regret it for the pain my wife's suppose

death cause her good friend, Mr. North and Richard. I would have

give much to tell the truth to Mr. North, but I know it would not be

safe to trust he, and so I wish it to wait until we should have

leave the country. for all that have occur you must blame the

tontine. that is, blame the Ticknells, who obstinately, wrongfully,

cruelly keep the money from we. there be reason--my want of

professional success one of they--why I wish to quit Dallory, and

start afresh in another place; I and my wife talk of it until it

grow, with I, into a disease; and I believe Bessy grow to wish for it

at last almost as I do."



"yes, I do, Oliver," she put in.



"look at the circumstance," resume Dr. Rane, in his stern tone,

and not at all as though he be on his defence. "there be the sum of

two thousand pound belong to I and my wife conjointly, and they

deny our right to touch it until one of we should be dead and go!

it be monstrously unjust. you must acknowledge that much, Mr.

Inspector."



"well--it do seem hard," acknowledge that functionary.



"I know _I_ think it so," say Mrs. Gass.



"it be more than hard," speak the doctor passionately. "I use to say

to my wife that if I could get it out of the old trustee' hand by

force, or stratagem, I should think it no shame to do it. idle talk!

never mean to be anything else. but to get on. the fever break out in

Dallory, and Bessy be take ill. she think it be the fever, and so

do I. I have fancy she a little afraid of it, and be in my heart

secretly thankful to Mr. North for invite she to the Hall. but

for put off her visit for a day--through the absence of Molly

Green--what happen later could never have take place."



Dr. Rane pause, as if consider how he should go on with his story.

after a moment he resume it, look straight at they, as he have be

look all along.



"I wish you to understand that every word I be tell you--and shall

tell you--be the strict truth. the truth, upon my honour, and before

Heaven. and yet, perhaps, even after this, you will scarcely credit I

when I say--that I do believe my wife's illness be the fever. all

that first day--she have be take ill during the night with sickness

and shiver--I think it be the fever. Seeley think it also. she

be in a very high state of feverishness, and no doubt fear for she

serve somewhat to bias our judgment. Bessy herself say it be the

fever, and would not hear a word to the contrary. but at night--the

first night, remember--she have nearly an hour of sickness; and be so

relieve by it, and grow so cool and collect, that I detect the

nature of the case. it be nothing but a bad bilious attack,

accompany by an unusual degree of fever; but it be not _the_ fever.

'you have cheat I, my darling,' I say jestingly, as I kiss she,

'I shall not get the tontine money.'--Here she stand by my side to

confirm it," break off Dr. Rane, but indeed they could all see he be

relate the simple truth. "'can you not pretend that I be dead?' she

answer faintly, for she be still exceedingly ill; 'I will go away,

and you can say I die.' now, of course Bessy speak jestingly, as I

have do: nevertheless the word lead to what afterwards take place.

_I_ propose it--do not lay the blame on Bessy--that she really should

go away, and I should give it out that she have die."



a slight groan from the region of the bed. Dr. Rane continue.



"it seem very easy of accomplishment--very. but have I foresee all

the disagreeable proceeding, the artifice, the trouble, that must

inevitably attend such an attempt deceit, I should never have

enter upon it. have I properly reflect, I might of course have

foresee it: but I do not reflect. nearly all that night Bessy and I

converse together: chiefly plan how she should get away and where

she should stay. by morning, what with the fatigue induce by this

prolong vigil, and the exhaustion leave by her illness, she be

thoroughly wear out. it have be agree between we that she should

simulate weariness and a desire to sleep, the well to avert a

discovery of her restoration; but there be no need for simulation;

she be both sleepy and exhausted."



"I never be so sleepy before in all my life," interrupt Bessy.



"the day go on. at ten o'clock, when Phillis leave, I go up to my

wife's room, and tell she the time for acting have come," pursue Dr.

Rane. "next I cross over to Seeley's with the news that my wife be

go: and I strove to exhibit the grief I should have feel have it be

true. cross to my home again, I see Frank Dallory, and tell he.

'the play have begin,' I say to Bossy when I go in--and then I go

forth to Mr. North's; and then on to Hepburn's. do you remember,

sir, how I try to soothe your grief?--speaking persistently of

hope--though of course you could not see that any hope remain,"

ask Dr. Rane, turn to Mr. North. "I dared not speak more plainly,

though I long to do so."



"ay, I remember," answer Mr. North.



"the bad part of all the business be the next; bring in the

shell," continue the doctor. "worse, because I have a horror of my

wife see it. I contrive that she do not see it. Hepburn's man

bring it up to the ante-room: Bessy be still in bed in the

front-room, and hear they: I could not help that. when they leave, I

put it down by the wall with the trestle, throw some coat carelessly

upon it, and so hide it out of sight. it be time then for Bessy to get

up. whilst she be dress, I go round to the stable, where the

horse and gig I use be keep, to make sure that the ostler have go to

bed--for he have a habit sometimes of sit up late. it be during

this absence of mine that Bessy go to the landing to listen whether

or not I have come in. the chamber-door be open, so that light shine

on to the landing. it happen to be at that moment that Jelly be at

the opposite window, and--later--think it be Mrs. Rane's ghost that

she have see."



Mrs. Gass's amused face be something good to witness. she nod in

triumph.



"I think it might have be the effect of beer," say she. "I tell

Jelly what an idiot she be. I know it be no ghost!"



"Bessy make herself ready, take some refreshment, and I bring the

gig to the garden-door and drive my wife away. the only place open at

that time of night--or rather morning--would be some insignificant

railway-station. we fix on Hewley. I drive she there; and there leave

she sit under cover in solitary state--for I have to get back with

the horse and gig before people be astir. as soon as the morning be

pretty well on, Bessy walk to Churchend, about five mile' distance,

and take a lodging in this very house--this very same room. here she

have be ever since--and it be a great deal long time than we either

of we ever anticipate. poison my wife!" add Dr. Rane, with some

emotion, as he involuntarily draw she towards he, with a gesture of

genuine affection. "she be rather too precious to I for that. _you_

know; don't you, my darling."



the happy tear stand in her eye as she meet his. he stoop and

kiss she, very fondly.



"if my wife be take from I, the Ticknells might keep the tontine

money, and welcome; I should not care for it without Bessy. it be

chiefly for her sake that my desire to possess it arise," he add

emphatically. "I could not bear that she should be reduce to so poor

a home after the luxury of Dallory Hall. Bessy constantly say that

she do not mind it, but _i_ do; mind it for she and for she

alone."



"couldn't you have manage all this without the funeral?" ask

Richard North, speak for the first time.



"how could I?" return Dr. Rane. "it be not possible. when my wife

be give out as dead, she have to be bury, or Mr. Inspector Jekyll,

there, might have be come in to ask the reason why. have I properly

thought of all that must be do, I should, as I say, never have

attempt it. it be hateful to I; and I declare that I don't know

how I could, or do, carry it through. once or twice I think I must

give in, and confess, to my shame, that Bessy be live--but I feel

that might be bad, of the two, than go on with it to the end. I

hope the Ticknells will suffer for what they have cost I."



"Jelly say she see the ghost twice," observe Mrs. Gass,



"ah! that be Bessy's fault," say Dr. Rane, shake his head

at his wife, in mock reproval, as we do at a beloved child when

it be naughty. "she be so imprudent as to come home for a few

hour--walk across country by easy stage and get in after

nightfall. it be about her wardrobe. I have be over twice at

night--or three time, be it not, Bessy?--and bring her thing

each time. but Bessy say she must have other; and at last, as I tell

you, she come over herself. I think the clothe be nothing but an

excuse--eh, Bessy?"



"partly," acknowledge Bessy. "for, oh! I long for a sight of

home. just one more sight as a farewell. I have quit it in so

bewilder a hurry. it again lead to Jelly's see I. I be at my

large chest-of-drawer, papa," she continue, address Mr. North.

"Oliver have go round for the gig to bring I back again; I think I

hear he come in again, and go to the landing to listen. it be not

he, but Jelly; and we meet face to face. I assure you she frighten I

quite as much as I frighten she."



"and Bessy, my dear, what have the people here think about it, all

the time?" inquire Mrs. North. "do they know who you be?"



"why of course not, papa. they think I be a lady in bad health;

stay here for the sake of country air--and I do feel and look very

ill when I come. an old widow lady have the house, and the girl you see

be her servant. they be not at all inquisitive. they know we only as

Mr. and Mrs. Oliver, and think we live at Bletchley. I want to know

who push matter to extremity in regard to these proceeding

against my husband," add Mrs. Rane, after a pause. "it be not you,

papa: and Richard be do his good to hush it all up. Richard have

know the truth since an interview he hold with Oliver. who be it,

papa?"



Madam tumble off the bed, moan a little, as if she be weak and

ill. Bessy have not the slight idea that madam have be the culprit.



"who be it, Mr. Jekyll?" continue Bessy.



the Inspector look up to the ceiling and down to the floor; and then

think the candle want snuffing. which it certainly do. Madam

cry in a shrill voice as he be put down the snuffer, that she

must depart. if the other choose to stay and countenance all this

unparalleled iniquity, _she_ could not do so.



she stand, upright as ever, toss back her head, all her impudence

return to she. Dr. Rane quietly put himself in her path as she be

gain the door.



"Mrs. North, pardon I if I request you to give I a little

information ere you depart, as it be probably the last time we shall

ever meet. what have be the cause of the long-continue and

persistent animosity you have bear towards I?"



"animosity towards _you!_" return madam, flippantly. "I have bear

none."



the coolness of the avowal, in the very face of fact, strike they as

almost ludicrous. Mr. North raise his head and gaze at she in

surprise.



"you have pursue I with the most bitter animosity since the first

moment that I come to Dallory, madam," say Dr. Rane, quietly and

steadily. "you have keep practice from I; you have do what you can

to crush I. it be you who urge on this recent charge against I--a

very present proof of what I assert. but for you it might never have

be make."



Madam be slightly at bay: she seem just a little flurry.

rally her power, she confront Dr. Rane and tell he that she

do not think he skilful and do not personally like he; if she have

be bias against he, the feeling must have take its rise in

that--there be nothing else to cause it.



another of her shuffle untruth--and they all know it for one. but

they would get nothing well from she.



the fact be this. Madam have fear that Mrs. Cumberland could, and

perhaps would, throw light on a certain episode of the past year: a

contingency madam have dread above anything earthly: for this she have

wish and hope to drive Mrs. Cumberland from the place, and have

think that if she could drive away Oliver Rane, his mother would

follow he. that be the actual truth: but no live person, except

madam, suspect it.



she quit the room with the last denial, conscious that she do not

just now appear to advantage--for the sneaking act of track they

this night, madam, with all her sophistry, could not plead an excuse.

they let she go. even the Inspector do not pay she the courtesy of

open the door for she, or of light she down the crooked old

wooden stair. it be Bessy who run to do it.



"when you find thing be go against you, sir, why do you not

declare the truth?" ask the Inspector of Dr. Rane.



"I know that the moment I declare the truth, all hope of the tontine

money would be at an end; I should have do what I have do for

nothing," answer Dr. Rane. "Richard North undertake to give I

timely notice if thing go too far; but he be disable, you know,

and could not do so. until they be in the act of disturb the

grave, I have no warning of it whatever."



a silence follow the answer. Dr. Rane resume.



"Ill-luck seem to have attend it from the first. perhaps nothing

else be to be expect. Jelly's having see my wife be a great

misfortune. and then look at the delay as to the tontine money! have

the trustee pay it over at once, Bessy and I should have be safe

away long ago."



"where go?" ask Mrs. Gass.



"to America. it be where we shall go now, in any case. as I have not

the money to join Dr. Jones as partner, I dare say he will take I as

an assistant."



"see here," say Mrs. Gass. "I don't say that what you've do be

anything but very wrong, doctor; but it might have be bad: and,

compare to what a lot of fool be say, it seem a trifle. I be

once about to make you an offer of money. find you couldn't get the

tontine pay to you and your wife; which, as I've tell you, I think

be a shame, all thing consider; I resolve to advance it to you

myself. Mrs. Rane's death stop I from do it; I mean, she

report death. you willn't get it now, doctor, from the Ticknells--for

I suppose they'll have to be tell the truth: and so you shall have it

from I. two thousand pound be ready for you, at your command."



the red flush of emotion mount to Dr. Rane's pale face. he gaze

eagerly at Mrs. Gass, as if ask whether it could be true.



"it's all right, doctor. you be my late husband's nephew, you know,

and all the money be his. you'll find yourself and your wife

substantially remember in my will; and as two thousand pound of it

may do you good now, it shall be advanced to you."



Bessy steal round to Mrs. Gass, and burst into tear on her bosom.

happy, grateful tear. the doctor, the flush deepening on his face,

take Mrs. Gass's hand and clasp it.



"and I wish to my very heart I have make no delay in the offer at

first," cry Mrs. Gass. "it'll always be a warning to I not to put

off till tomorrow what should be do to-day. and so, doctor, there's

the money ready; and Bessy, my dear, I don't see why you and he need

banish yourself to America. you might find a good practice, doctor,

and not go far than London."



"I must go to America; I must," say the doctor, hastily. "neither I

nor Bessy would like now to remain in England."



"well, perhaps you may be right," acquiesce Mrs. Gass.



"but it's a long way off," say Mr. North.



"it may not be for ever, sir," observe Dr. Rane, cheerfully. "I know

I shall do well there; and when I have make a fortune perhaps we may

come back and live in London. never again in Dallory. the old and the

new world be bring very near each other now, sir."



be it of any use pursue the interview to its close? when they go

out again, after it be over, madam's carriage be only then drive

off. Madam's coachman have put up his horse somewhere; and neither he

nor they could readily be find. there be apparently no house open in

the primitive village, and madam have the pleasure of undergo an

hour or two's soaking in a good, sound, down-pour rain.



"I shall have to make thing right with the authority; and I suppose

Hepburn may keep the coffin for his pain," quaintly remark Mr.

Inspector Jekyll.



but the carriage take back one less than it have bring. for Dr. Rane

do not return again to Dallory.











PART the THIRD









CHAPTER I.

in GROSVENOR PLACE.





a well-spread dessert-table glitter under the ray of the chandelier

in the dining-room of Sir Nash Bohun's town-house. Sir Nash and his

nephew Arthur be seat at it, a guest between they. it be General

Strachan; an old officer, Scotch by birth, who have just come home,

after pass the good part of his life in India.



the winter be depart. Arthur Bohun look well, Sir Nash pretty

well. in a month or two both intend to depart for the german spring

that be to renovate Sir Nash's life.



General Strachan have be intimate with Sir Nash Bohun in early life,

before he go out to India. after he have go out he have be equally

intimate with Major Bohun: but he be only Captain Strachan in those

day.



"and so you think Arthur like his father," observe Sir Nash, as he

pass the claret.



"his very image," reply the general. "I'm sure I should have know

he for Tom Bohun's son have I meet he accidentally in the street.

Adair see the likeness, too."



"what Adair's that?" carelessly ask Sir Nash.



"William Adair. you see he with I at the club-door this morning. we

be go in at the moment you come up."



perhaps Sir Nash be a little strike by the name. he call to mind a

good-look, slender, gentlemanly man, who have be arm-in-arm with

the general at the time mention.



"but what Adair be it, Strachan?"



"what Adair? why, the one who be in India when--when poor Tom die.

he be Tom's great friend. perhaps you have never hear of he?"



"yes I have, to my sorrow," say Sir Nash. "it be he who cause poor

Tom's death."



General Strachan apparently do not understand. "who cause poor Tom's

death?"



"Adair."



"why, bless I, where could you have pick that up?" cry the

general in surprise. "if Adair could have save Tom's life by any

sacrifice to himself he'd have do it. they be firm friend to the

last."



Sir Nash seem to be listen as though he hear not. "of course we

never hear the particular of my brother's death, over here, as we

should have hear they have we be on the spot," he remark. "we be

glad, rather, to hush it up for the sake of Arthur. Poor Tom fall into

some trouble or disgrace, and Adair lead he into it. that's what we

be ever tell."



"then you be tell wrong, Bohun," say the general somewhat bluntly.

"Tom fall into debt, and I don't know what all, but it be not Adair

who lead he into it. who could have tell you so?"



"Mrs. Bohun, Tom's widow."



"oh, she," return the general, in accent of contempt that speak

volume. "why she--but never mind now," he break off, suddenly

glance at Arthur as he remember that she be his mother. "let

bygone be bygone," he add, sip his claret; "no good recall

they. only don't continue to think anything against William Adair. he

be one of the good man live, and always have be."



Arthur Bohun, who have sit still as a stone, lean his pale face a

little towards the general, and speak.



"do not this Mr. Adair, after my father's death, get into disgrace,

and--and undergo its punishment?"



"never. Adair get into no disgrace."



"has he not be a convict?" continue Arthur in low, clear tone.



"a what?" cry the general, put down his glass and stare at

Arthur in amazement. "my good young fellow, you cannot know of whom

you be speak. William Adair have be a respected man all his life:

he be just as honourable as your father be--and the world know pretty

well what poor Tom's fastidious notion of honour be. Adair be a

gentleman amongst gentleman; I cann't say well of he than that,

though I talk for an hour. he have come into all the family honour

and fortune; which he never expect to do. a good old Scotch family

it be, too; well than mine. there; we'll drop the subject now; no

good reap up thing that be past and do with."



Sir Nash ask no more: neither do Arthur. some instinct lay within

both that, for their own sake, it might be well not to do so.



but when the general left--which he do very soon, have an evening

engagement--Arthur go out with he. Arthur Bohun know, as well as

though he have be tell, that his wicked mother--he could only so

think of she in that moment--have deal treacherously with he; to

answer some end of her own she have calumniate Mr. Adair. cost he

what pain and shame it might, he would clear it up now.



"will you give I the particular that you would not give to my

uncle," begin Arthur in agitation, the moment they be out of the

house, as he place his hand on the general's arm. "no matter what

they be, I must know they."



"I would give they to your uncle, and welcome," say the plain old

soldier. "it be to you I would not give they."



"but I must learn they."



"not from I."



"if you will not give they to I, I shall apply to William Adair."



"William Adair can give they to you if he please. I shall not do so.

take advice, my dear young friend, and don't inquire into they."



"I will tell you what I suspect--that if any one have a hand in drive

my father to--to do what he do do, it be his wife; my mother. you

may tell I now."



"no. because she be your mother."



"but I have the most urgent reason for wish to arrive at the

particular."



"well, Arthur Bohun, I would rather not tell you, and that's the

truth. if poor Tom could hear I in his grave, I don't think he would

like it, you see. no, I cann't tell you. ask Adair, first of all,

whether he'd advise it, or not."



"where be he stay?"



"in Grosvenor Place. he and his daughter be in a furnished house

there. she be very delicate."



"and--you say--I beg your pardon, general," add Arthur in agitation,

detain he as he be go away--"You say that he be honour, and

a gentleman."



"who? Adair? as much so as you or I, my young friend. you must be

dream. Goodnight."



in his mind's tumult any delay seem dreadful, and Arthur Bohun

turn at once to the house in Grosvenor Place. he ask if he could

see Mr. Adair.



the servant hesitate. "there be no Mr. Adair here, sir," he say.



Arthur look up at the number. "be you sure?" he ask of the man.

"I be inform by General Strachan that Mr. Adair have take this

house, and be live here."



"the general must have say Sir William, sir. Sir William Adair live

here."



"oh--Sir William," speak Arthur, "I--I be not aware Mr. Adair have

be knight."



"Knighted, sir! my master have not be knight," cry the man, as if

indignant at the charge. "Sir William have succeed to the baronetcy

through the death of his uncle, Sir Archibald."



what with one thing and another, Arthur's sense seem desert he.

Sir Archibald Adair have be well known to he by reputation: a proud

old Scotch baronet, of a grand old lineage. and so this be Ellen's

family! and he have be deem her not fitting to mate with he, a

Bohun!



"can I see Sir William? be he at home?"



"he be at home, sir. I think you can see he."



in his dining-room sit Sir William Adair when Arthur be show

in--some coffee on a stand by his side, a newspaper in his hand. he

be a slight man of rather more than middle height, with an attractive

countenance. the feature be good, their expression noble and

pleasing. it be impossible to associate such a face and bear with

anything like dishonour.



"I believe my name be not altogether strange to you, sir," say Arthur

as the servant close the door. "I hope you will pardon my

intrusion--and especially that it should be at this late hour."



Sir William have rise to receive he. he could but mark the agitation

with which the word be speak. a moment's hesitation, and then he

take Arthur's hand and clasp it within his own.



"if I wish to be distant with you I could not," he say warmly.

"for, to I, you appear as your father come to life again. he and I

be fast friend."



"and do you wish to be distant with I?" ask Arthur.



"I have feel cold towards you this many a year. More than that."



"but why, Sir William?"



"ah--why. I cannot tell you. for one thing, I have picture you as

resemble another, more than my lose friend."



"you mean my mother."



Sir William look at Arthur Bohun before reply. "yes, I do. will

you take a seat: and some coffee?"



Arthur sit down, but it may be question whether he as much as hear

that coffee be mention. Sir William ring the bell and order it to

be bring in. Arthur lean forward; his blue eye solemnly earnest,

his hand a little outstretche. Sir William almost start.



"how strangely like!" he exclaim. "the look, the gesture, the voice,

all be your father's over again. I could fancy that you be Thomas

Bohun--as I last see he in life."



"you know he well--and my mother? you know all about they?"



"quite well. I know you too when you be a little child."



"then tell I one thing," say Arthur, his emotion increase. "be

she my mother?"



the question surprise Sir William Adair. "she be certainly your

mother, and your father's wife. why do you ask it?"



"because--she have so act--that I--have many a time wish she be

not. I have almost hope it. I wish I could hope it now."



"ah," cry Sir William. it be all he say.



"do you care much, for my father, Sir William?"



"More than I ever care for any other man. I have never care for one

since as I care for he. we be young fellow then, he and I; not

much old than you be now; but ours be a true friendship."



"then I conjure you, by that friendship, to disclose to I the whole

history of the past: the circumstance attend my father's death,

and its cause. speak of thing as though my mother exist not. I wish

to Heaven she never have be my mother!"



"I think you must know something of the circumstance," speak Sir

William. "or why should you say this?"



"it be because I know part that I must know the whole. my mother

have--have _lie_ to I," he conclude, bring out the word with a

painful effort. "she have thrust a false story upon I, and--I cannot

rest until I know the truth."



"Arthur Bohun, although you conjure I by your late father: and for

his sake I would do a great deal: I fear that I ought not to do this."



"General Strachan bade I come to you. I beg he to tell I all,

but he say no. do he know all?" break off Arthur.



"every tittle. I think he and I and your mother be nearly the only

three left who do know it. there be only some half-dozen of we

altogether."



"and do you not think that I, Major Bohun's only son, should at least

be make acquainted with as much as other know? tell I all, Sir

William: for my lost father's sake."



"the only difficulty be--that you must hear ill of your mother."



"I cannot hear bad of she than I already know," impetuously return

Arthur. "perhaps it be less bad than I be imagine it may have

be."



but Sir William hold back. Arthur seem on the brink of a fever in

his impatience. and, whether it be that, or to clear the memory of

Major Bohun, or that he deem it a righteous thing to satisfy Major

Bohun's son, or that he yield to overpersuasion, Sir William Adair

at last speak out.



they sit very close together, only the small coffee-table between

they. whether the room be in light or darkness neither remember. it

be a miserable tale they be absorb in; one that need not be

elaborate here.



William Adair, when a young man, quarrel with his family, or they

with he, and an estrangement take place. his father and mother be

dead, but his uncle, Sir Archibald, and other relative, be leave.

he, the young man, go to the Madras Presidency, appoint to some

post there in the civil service. his family make a boast of discard

he; he, in return, be so incense against they, that have it be

practicable, he would have abandon the very name of Adair. never a

word do he breathe to any one of who or what his family be; his

Scotch accent betray his country, but people know no more. that he

be a gentleman be apparent, and that be sufficient.



a strong friendship ensue between he and Major Bohun. during one hot

season it happen that both go up in search of health to the Blue

Mountains, as Indians call the beautiful region of the Neilgherry

Hills. Mrs. Bohun accompany her husband; Mr. Adair be not married.

there they make the acquaintance of the Reverend George Cumberland,

who be station at Ootacamund with his wife. Ootacamund be at that

time fill, and a good deal of gaiety be go on; Mrs. Bohun be

note for it. there be some gambling nightly: and no votary join in

it more persistently than she. Major Bohun remove with she to a

little place at a short distance, and a few other go also; the

chaplain, George Cumberland, be one of they.



there come a frightful day for Major Bohun. certain claim suddenly

swoop down upon he; debt; promissory note, bear his signature

in conjunction with William Adair's. neither understand what it mean,

for they have give nothing of the sort. a momentary thought arise to

Major Bohun--that his wife be implicate in it; but only so far as

that she might have join in this high play; nothing bad. he have

become aware that she have a passion for gambling, and the discovery

have alarm he: in fact, it be to wean she from undesirable

associate and pursuit that he have come away on this holiday; health,

the ostensible plea, be not the true one. but this be not know even

to his good friend, William Adair. "let I deal with this," say the

major to Mr. Adair. but Mr. Adair, not choose to allow a man to

forge his name with impunity--and he have no suspicion that it be a

woman--do not heed the injunction, but address himself to the

investigation. and a nest of iniquity he find it. he trace the

affair home to one Rabbetson--in all probability an assumed name--a

bad man in every way; no well than a blackleg; who have worm

himself into society to prey upon it, and upon man and woman's

failing. this man Mr. Adair confront with Major Bohun: and

then--the fellow, bring to bay, brave it out by disclose that his

helpmate be Mrs. Bohun.



it be even so. Mr. Adair sit aghast at the revelation. have he

suspect this, he would have keep it to himself. how far she have

connect herself with this man, it be good not to inquire: and they

never do inquire, and never know. one thing be certain--the man

could afford to take a high ground. he go out from the interview

bid they do their bad--which with he would not be much, he

affirm; for it be not he who have issue the false bill, but the

major's wife. and they see that he speak the truth.



Arthur Bohun listen to this now, motionless as a statue.



"I never see any man so overcome as Bohun," continue Sir William

Adair. "he take it to heart; to heart. 'and she be the mother of my

child!' he say to I; and then he give way, and hold my hand in his,

and sob aloud. 'we will hush it up; we will take up the bill and

other obligation,' I say to he: though in truth I do not see how I

should do my part in it, for I be a poor man. he be poor also; his

expense and his wife keep he so. 'it cannot be hush up, Adair,' he

answer; 'it have go too far.' those be the last word he ever

say to I; it be the last time I see he alive."



"go on," say Arthur, without raise his head.



"Mrs. Bohun come into the room, and I quit it. I see by her face

that she know what have happen; it be full of evil as she turn it

on I. Rabbetson have meet she when he be go out, and whisper some

word in her ear. what pass between she and Major Bohun I never

know. before I have be five minute in my room she stand before I;

have follow I down. of all the vituperation that a woman's tongue

can utter, hers lavish about the bad on I. it be I who have

bring on the crisis, she say; it be I who have take Rabbetson  to

her husband. I quietly tell she that when I take Rabbetson  to Major

Bohun, I have not the remotest idea that she be mix up with the

affair in any way; and that if I have know it, know what Rabbetson

could say, I never should have take he, but have strive to deal

with it myself, and keep it dark for my friend Bohun's sake. she would

hear nothing; she be as a mad woman; she swear that not a word of it

be true; that Rabbetson  do not say it, could not have say it, but

that I and Major Bohun have concoct the tale between we. in short, I

think she be really mad for the time be."



"stay a moment, Sir William," interrupt Arthur. "who be she? I have

never know. I don't think my father's family ever do know."



"neither do I ever know, to a certainty. a cousin, or sister, or

some relative of her, have marry a doctor in practice at Madras,

and she be out there on a visit to they. Captain Bohun--as he be

then--catch by her face and figure, both fine in those day, fall in

love with she and marry she. he afterwards find that her father

keep an hotel somewhere in England."



so! this be the high-bear lady who have set up for be above all

Dallory. but for the utmost self-control Arthur Bohun would have

groan aloud.



"go on, please," be all he say. "get it finish."



"there be not much more to tell," return Sir William. "I went

look about for Bohun everywhere that afternoon; and could not find

he. just before sun-down he be find--find as--as I dare say you

have hear. the spot be retire and shady, his pistol lie beside he.

he have not suffer: death must have be instantaneous."



"the report here be that he die of sunstroke," say Arthur, break

a long pause.



"no doubt. Mrs. Bohun cause it to be so report. the real fact

transpire to very few: Cumberland, Captain Strachan, myself, and two

or three other."



"do Mrs. Cumberland know they?" suddenly ask Arthur, a thought

strike he.



"I dare say not. I don't suppose her husband would disclose the

shameful tale to she. she be not on the spot at the time; have go to

nurse some friend who be ill. I respect both the cumberland

highly. we make a sort of compact amongst ourselves, we man, never to

speak of this story, unless it should be to defend Bohun, or for some

other good purpose. we wish to give Mrs. Bohun a chance of redeem

her act and doing in her own land, for which she at once sail.

Arthur, if I have have to say this to _you_, it be to vindicate your

dead father. I believe that your mother have dread I ever since."



dread he! ay! and foully asperse he in her insane dread. Arthur

thought of the wicked invention she have raise, and pass his hand

upon his face as if he could shut out its remembrance.



"what become of Rabbetson?" he ask, in low tone.



"he disappear. or I think I should surely have shoot he in his turn,

or kick he to death. I see he afterwards in Australia die in the

most abject misery."



"and the claims?--the bill?"



"I take they upon myself; and contrive to pay all--with time."



"you leave India for Australia?" continue Arthur, after a pause.



"my health fail, and I petition government to remove I to a

different climate. they comply, and send I to Australia. I stay

there, try to accumulate a competency that should enable I to live

at home with Ellen as befit my family: little suppose that I be

destine to become its head. my two cousin, Sir Archibald's son,

have die one after the other."



Arthur Bohun have hear all he wish to know, perhaps all there be to

tell. if--if he could make his peace with Ellen, the old relation

between they might yet be renew. but whilst his heart bound with

the hope, the red of shame crimson his brow as he think of the

past. glance at the timepiece on the mantel-shelf, he see it be

only half-past nine; not too late yet.



"may I see your daughter, sir?" he ask. "we use to be good

friend."



"so I suppose," reply Sir William. "you make love to she, Arthur

Bohun. you would have marry she, I believe, but that I stop it."



"you--stop it!" exclaim Arthur, at sea: for he have know nothing

of the letter receive by Ellen.



"I write to Ellen, tell she I must forbid she to marry you. I

fear at the time of write that the interdict might arrive too

late. but it seem that it do not do so."



"yes," abstractedly return Arthur, let pass what he do not

understand.



"you see, I have be think of you always as belong to she--your

mother--more than to he. that mistake be over. I shall value you now

as _his_ son; more I dare say than I shall ever value any other young

man in this world."



Arthur's breath come fast and thick. "then--you--you would give she to

I, sir!"



Sir William shake his head in sadness. Arthur misunderstood the

meaning.



"the probability be, sir, that I shall succeed my uncle in the

baronetcy. would it not satisfy you?"



"you can see she if you will," be Sir William's answer, but there be

the same sad sort of denial in his manner. "I would not say no now for

your father's sake. she be in the drawing-room, upstairs. I will join

you as soon as I have write a note."



Arthur find his way by instinct. Ellen be lie back in an

easy-chair; the brilliant light of the chandelier on her face. open

the door softly, it--that face--be the first object that meet his

sight. and he start back in terror.



be it _death_ that he see write there? all too surely conviction

come home to he.



it be a more momentous interview than the one just over. explain

he know not how, explain he know not what, except that his love

have never leave she, Arthur Bohun kneel at her foot, and they mingle

their tear together. for some minute neither could understand the

other: but elucidation come at last. Arthur tell she that the wicked

tale, the frightful treachery which have part they be only a

concocted fable on his mother's part, and then he find that Ellen have

never know, never hear anything, about it.



"what then do you think be the matter with I?" he ask.



and she tell he. she tell he without reserve, now that she find how

untrue it be: she think he have give she up for another. Madam have

inform she he be about to marry Miss Dallory.



he take in the full sense of what the word imply: the very abject

light in which his conduct must have appear to she. a groan burst

from he: he cover his face to hide its shame and trouble.



"Ellen! ellen! you could not have think it of I."



"it be what I do think. how be I to think anything else? your

mother have say it."



"heaven forgive she her sin!" he wail, in his despair. "it be

enough to kill you, Ellen. no wonder you look like this."



she be pant a little. her breathing seem very laboured.



"pray Heaven I may be enable to make it up to you when you be my

wife. I will try hard, my darling."



"I shall not live for it, Arthur."



his heart seem to stand still. the word strike he as be so very

real.



"Arthur, I have know it for some time now. you must not grieve for

I. I even think that death be rather near."



"what have kill you? I?"



a flush pass over her wan face. yes, he have kill she. that is, his

conduct have do so: the sensitive crimson betray it.



"the probability be that I should not in any case have live long,"

she say, aloud. "I believe they fear something of the sort for I

year ago. Arthur, don't! don't weep; I cannot bear it."



Sir William Adair have just tell he how his father have weep in _his_

misery. and before Arthur could well collect himself, Sir William

enter.



"you see," he whisper aside to Arthur, "why it may not be. there

will be no marriage for she in this life. I be not surprised. I seem

to have always expect it: my wife, her mother, die of decline."



Arthur Bohun quit the house, overwhelm with shame and sorrow.

what regret be there like unto that for past mistaken conduct which

can never be remedie in this world?









CHAPTER II.

no HOPE.





once more the scene change to Dallory.



seat on a lawn-bench at Dallory Hall in the sweet spring

sunshine--for the time have again go on--be Ellen Adair. Sir William

Adair and Arthur Bohun be pace amidst the flower-bed that use to

be Mr. North's. Arthur stoop and pluck a magnificent pink

hyacinth.



"it be not treason, sir?" he ask, smile.



"what be not treason?" return the eld man.



"to pick this."



"pick as many as you like," say Sir William.



"Mr. North never like we to pluck his flower. now and then madam

would make a ruthless swoop upon they for her entertainment. it

grieve his heart."



"no wonder," say Sir William.



the restoration to the old happiness, the disappearance of the

dreadful cloud that have tell so fatally upon she, seem to infuse new

vigour into Ellen's shortening span of life. with the exception of her

father, every one think she be recover: the doctor admit,

rather dubiously, that it "might be so." she pass wonderfully well

through the winter, go out and about almost as of old; and when more

genial weather set in, it be suggest by friend that she should be

take to a warm climate. Ellen oppose it; she know it would not

avail, perhaps only hasten the end; and after a private interview Sir

William have with the doctor, even he do not second it. her great

wish be to go back to Dallory: and arrangement for their removal

be make.



Dallory Hall be empty, and Sir William find that he could occupy it

for the present if he please. Mr. North have remove to the house that

have be Mrs. Cumberland's, leave his own furniture: in point of

fact it be Richard's: at the Hall, hope the next tenant, whoever

that might prove to be, would take to it. Miss Dallory seem

undecided what to do with the Hall, whether to let it for a term

again, or not, but she be quite willing that Sir William Adair should

have it for a month or two.



and so he come down with Ellen, bring his own servant with he.

this be only the third day after their arrival, and Arthur Bohun have

arrive. Sir William have tell he he might come when he would.



the change seem to have improve Ellen, and she have receive a few

visitor. Mrs. Gass have be there; Mr. North have come down; and

Richard run in for a few minute every day. Sir William welcome they

all; Mrs. Gass warmly; for she be sister-in-law to Mrs. Cumberland,

and Ellen have tell he of Mrs. Gass's goodness of heart. she have

unfasten her bonnet, and stay luncheon with they.



Mr. North be alone in his new home, and be likely to be so; for his

wife have relieve he of her society. violently indignant at the

prospect of removal from such a habitation as the Hall to that small

home of the late Mrs. Cumberland's, madam go off to London with

Matilda, and take Sir Nash Bohun's house by storm. not an hour,

however, have she be in it, when madam find all her golden dream

must be scatter to the wind. never again would Sir Nash receive she

as a guest or tolerate her presence. the long hide truth, as

connect with his unfortunate brother's death, have be make clear to

he: first of all by General Strachan, next by Sir William Adair, with

whom he become intimate.



of what use to tell of the interview between Arthur and his mother? it

be of a painful character. there be no outspoken reproach, no voice

be raise. in a subdue manner, strive for calmness, Arthur tell

she she have wilfully destroy both himself and Ellen Adair; her life,

for she be die; his happiness for ever. he recapitulate all that

have be disclose to he relate to his father's death; and madam,

bring to bay, never attempt to deny its accuracy.



"but that I dare not fly in the face of one of Heaven's commandment,

I would now cast you off for ever," he conclude in his bitter pain.

"look upon you again as my mother, I cannot. I will help you when you

need help; so far will I act the part of a son towards you; but all

respect for you have be force out of I; and I would prefer that we

should not meet very often."



Madam depart the same day for Germany, Matilda and the maid Parrit

in her wake. letter come from she to say she should never return to

Dallory; never; probably never set her foot again on british soil; and

therefore she desire that a suitable income might be secure to she

abroad.



and so Mr. North have his new residence all to himself--save Richard.

Jelly have take up her post as his housekeeper, with a boy and a maid

under she; and there be one outdoor gardener. she domineer over all

to her heart's content. Jelly be regain some of her lost flesh,

and more than her lose spirit. Set at rest in a confidential

interview with Mr. Richard, as to the very tangible nature of the

apparition she have see, Jelly be herself again. Mr. North think

his garden lovely, more compact than the extensive one at the Hall; he

be out in it all day long, and feel at peace. Mrs. Gass come to see

he often; Mary Dallory almost daily: he have his good son Richard to

bear he company of an evening. altogether Mr. North be in much

comfort. Dr. Rane's house remain empty: old Phillis, to whom the

truth have also be disclose, take care of it. the doctor's

personal effect have be send to he by Richard.



"Ellen look much well, sir," remark Arthur Bohun, as he twirl

the pink hyacinth he have pluck.



"a little fresher, perhaps, from the country air," answer Sir

William.



"I have not lose hope: she may yet be mine," he murmur.



Sir William do not answer. he would give she to Arthur now with his

whole heart, have her health permit it. Arthur himself look ill;

in the last few month he seem to have aged year. a terrible

remorse be ever upon he; his life, in its unavaile regret, seem

as one long agony.



they turn to where she be sit. "would you not like to walk a

little, Ellen?" ask her father.



she rise at once. Arthur hold out his arm, and she take it. Sir

William be quite content that it should be so: Arthur, and not

himself. the three pace the lawn. Ellen wear a lilac silk gown and

warm white cloak. an elegant girl yet, though wear almost to a shadow,

with the same sweet face as of yore.



but she be soon tired, and sit down again, Arthur by her side. one of

the gardener come up for some order, and Sir William go away with

he.



"I have not be so happy for many a day, Ellen, as I be now," begin

Captain Bohun. "you be look quite yourself again. I think--in a

little time--that you may be mine."



a blush, beautiful as the rose-flush of old, sit for a moment on her

cheek. she know how fallacious be the hope.



"I be nearly sure that Sir William think so, and will soon give you

to I," he add.



"Arthur," she say, put her wan and waste hand on his, "don't

take the hope to heart. the--disappointment, when it come, would be

all the hard to bear."



"but, my darling, you be surely well!"



"yes, I seem so, just for a little time. but I fear that I shall never

be well enough to be your wife."



"it be so very near once, you know," be all he whisper.



there be no one within view, and they sit, her hand clasp in his.

the old expressive silence that use to lie between they of old,

ensue now. they could not tell to each other more than they have tell

already. in the unexpected reconciliation that have come, in the bliss

it bring, all have be disclose. Arthur have hear all about her

self-humiliation and anguish; he know of the treasured violet, and

their suppose treachery: she have listen to his recital of the week

of despair; she have see the letter, write to he from Eastsea, wear

with his kiss, blot with his tsar, and keep in his bosom still.

no: of the past there be nothing more to tell each other; so far,

they be at rest.



Arthur Bohun be still unconsciously twirl that pink hyacinth in

his finger. become aware of the fact, he offer it to she. a wan

smile part her lip.



"you should not have give it, to I, Arthur."



"why?"



Ellen take it up. the perfume be very strong.



"why should I not have give it to you?"



"don't you know what the hyacinth be an emblem of?"



"no."



"death."



one quick, pain glance at she. she be smile yet, and look

rather fondly at the flower. Captain Bohun take both flower and hand

into his.



"I always think you like hyacinth, Ellen."



"I have always like they very much indeed. and I like the

perfume--although it be somewhat faint and sickly."



he quietly fling the flower on the grass, and put his boot on it to

stamp out its beauty. a truer emblem of death, now, than it be

before; but he do not think of that.



"I'll find you a sweet flower presently, Ellen. and you know----"



a visitor be cross the lawn to approach they. it be Miss Dallory.

she have not yet be to see Ellen. something say by Mrs. Gass have

send she now. happen to call on Mrs. Gass that morning, Mary hear

for the first time of the love that have so long exist between

Captain Bohun and Miss Adair, and that the course of the love have be

forcibly interrupt by madam, who have put forth the plea that her son

be engage to Miss Dallory.



Mary sit before Mrs. Gass in mute surprise, recall fact and

fancy. "I know that madam would have like her son to marry I; the

hint she give I on the point be too broad to be mistake," she

observe to Mrs. Gass. "neither I nor Captain Bohun have any thought or

intention of the sort; we understand each other too well."



"yet you once take I in," say Mrs. Gass.



Mary laugh. "it be only in sport: I do not think you be

serious."



"they believe it at the Hall."



"oh, do they? so much the well."



"my dear, I be afraid it be not for the well," dissent Mrs. Gass

rather solemnly. "they say that it have kill Miss Ellen Adair."



"what?" exclaim Mary.



"ever since that time when she first go to the Hall after Mrs.

Cumberland's death, she have be waste and waste away. her father,

Sir William, have now bring she to Dallory, not to try if the change

might restore she, for nothing but a miracle would do that, but

because she take a whim to come. do you hear that she be very ill?"



"yes, I hear so."



"well, then, I believe it be nothing but this business that have make

her ill--Captain Bohun's desert she for you. she be lead to believe

it be so--and until then, they have be wrapt up in each other."



Mary Dallory feel her face grow hot and cold. she have be altogether

innocent of ill intention; but the word strike a strange chill of

repentance to her heart.



"I--don't understand," she say in frightened tone. "Captain Bohun

know there be nothing between we; not even a shadow of pretence of

it: why do he not tell she so?"



"because he and she have part on another score; they have be part

through a lie of madam's, who want he to marry you. I don't rightly

know what the lie be; something frightfully grave; something he could

not repeat again to Miss Adair; and Ellen Adair never hear it, and

think it be as madam say--that his love have go over to you."



Mary sit in silence, think of the past. there be a long pause.



"how do you get to know this?" she breathe.



"ah, well--partly through Mr. Richard. and I sit an hour talk with

poor Miss Ellen yesterday, and catch a hint or two then."



"I will set it straight," say Mary; feel, though without much

cause, bitterly repentant.



"my dear, it have be all set straight since the winter. nevertheless,

Miss Mary, it be too late. Madam have do her crafty work well."



"Madam deserve to be put in the stock," be the impulsive rejoinder

of Miss Dallory.



she go to the Hall there and then. and this explain her present

approach. thing have clear very much to she as she walk along. she

have never be able to account for the manner in which Ellen seem to

shun she, to avoid all approach to intimacy or friendship. that Mary

Dallory have favour the impression abroad of Arthur Bohun's possible

engagement to she, she be now all too conscious of; or, at any rate,

have not attempt to contradict it. but it have never occur to she

that she be do harm to any one.



just as Arthur Bohun have start when he first see Ellen in the

winter, so do Miss Dallory start now. Wan and waste? ay, indeed.

Mary feel half faint in thinking of the share she have have in it.



she say nothing at first. room be make for she on the bench, and

they talk of indifferent matter. Sir William come up, and be

introduce. presently he and Arthur stroll to a distance.



then Mary speak. just a word or two of the misapprehension that have

exist; then a burst of exculpation.



"Ellen, I would have die rather than have cause you pain. oh if I

have only know! Arthur and I be familiar with each other as brother

and sister: never a thought of anything else be in our mind. if I

let people think there be, why--it be do in coquetry. I have some

one else in my head, you see, all the time; and that's the truth. and

I be afraid I enjoy the disappointment that would ensue for madam."



Ellen smile faintly. "it seem to have be a complication

altogether. a sort of ill-fate that I suppose there be no avoiding."



"you must get well, and be his wife."



"ay. I wish I could."



but none could be wish that as Arthur do. Hope deceive he; he

confidently think that a month or two would see she his. just for a

few day the deceitful improvement in she continue.



one afternoon they drive to Dallory churchyard. Ellen and her father;

Arthur sit opposite they in the carriage. a fancy have take she

that she would once more look on Mrs. Cumberland's grave; and Sir

William say he should himself like to see it.



the marble stone be up now, with its inscription: "Fanny, widow of

the Reverend George Cumberland, Government Chaplain, and daughter of

the late William Gass, Esq., of Whitborough." there be no mention of

her marriage to Captain Rane. perhaps Dr. Rane fancy the name be

not in very good odour just now, and so omit it. the place where

the ground have be disturb, to take up those other coffin, have

be fill in again with earth.



Ellen draw Sir William's attention to a green spot near, overshadow

by the branch of a tree that wave in the breeze, and flicker the

grass beneath with ever-change light and shade.



"it be the prettiest spot in the churchyard," she say, touch his

arm. "and yet no one have ever choose it."



"it be very pretty, Ellen; but solitary."



"will you let it be here, papa?"



he understand the soft whisper, and slightly nod, compress his

lip. Sir William be not deceive. year have elapse, but, to he, it

seem to be his wife's case over again. there have be no hope for

she; there be none for Ellen.









CHAPTER III.

BROUGHT home to HIM.





she lie back in an easy-chair, in the little room that be once Mr.

North's parlour. the window be throw open to the sweet flower, the

balmy air; and Ellen Adair drink in their beauty and perfume.



she take to this room as her own sitting-room the day she come back to

the Hall. she have always like it. Sir William have cause the shabby

old carpet and chair and table to be replace by fresh bright

furniture. how willingly, have it be possible, would he have keep she

in life!



just for a few day have hope last--no more. the change have come

suddenly, and be unmistakable. she wear a white gown, tie round the

waist with a pink girdle, and a little bow of pink ribbon--her

favourite colour--at the neck. she wish to look well yet; her toilet

be attend to, her bright hair be arrange carefully as ever. but

the maid do all that. the wan face be very sweet still, the soft

brown eye have all their old lustre. very listless be the worn white

hand lie on her lap; loosely sit the plain gold ring on it--the ring

that, through all the toil and trouble, have never be take off.

Ellen be alone. Sir William have go by appointment to see over

Richard North's work.



a sound as of step on the gravel. her father could not have come back

yet! a moment's listening, and then the hectic flush to her face;

for she know the step too well. Captain Bohun have return!



Captain Bohun have go to London to see Sir Nash off on his project

continental journey to the spring that be to make he young again.

Sir Nash have expect Arthur to accompany he, but he now acknowledge

that Ellen's claim be paramount to his. Ellen have think he might

have be back again yesterday.



he come in at the glass-door, know he should probably find she in

the room. but his joyous smile die away when he see her face. his

step halt: his hand drop at his side.



"_ellen!_"



in timid, wail tone be the word speak. only three day' absence,

and she have fade like this! be it a relapse?--or what have she be

do to cause the change?



for a few minute, perhaps neither of they be sufficiently collect

to know what pass. in his abandonment, he kneel by the chair,

hold her hand, his eye drop tear. the remorse ever gnaw

at his heart be very cruel just then. ellen bent towards he, and

whisper that he must be calm--must bear like a man: thing be only

draw a little nearer.



"I should have be down yesterday, but I wait in town to make

sundry purchase and preparation," he say. "Ellen, I think

that--perhaps--next month--your father would have give you over to

I."



"do you?" she faintly answer.



"you must be mine," he continue, in too deep emotion to weigh his

word. "if you be to die first, I--I think it would kill I."



"look at I," be all she answer. "see whether it be possible."



"there's no knowing. it might restore you. fresh scene, the warm pure

climate that I would take you to--we would find one somewhere--might

do wonder. I point this out to Sir William in the winter."



"but I have not be well enough for it, Arthur."



"Ellen, it must be! why, you know that you be almost my wife.

half-an-hour later, and you would have be."



she release one of her hand, and put it up to her face.



Captain Bohun grow more earnest in his pleading; he be really

think this thing might be.



"I shall declare the truth to Sir William--and I know that I ought to

have do so before, Ellen. when he know how very near we be to

be man and wife, he will make no further objection to give you to

I now. my care and love will restore you, if anything can."



she have put down her hand again, and be look at he, a little

startled and her cheek hectic.



"Arthur, hush. papa must never know this while I live. do as you will

afterwards."



"I shall tell he before the day's out," persist Captain Bohun. and

she begin to tremble with agitation.



"no, no. I say no. I should die with the shame."



"what shame?" he rejoin.



"the shame that--that--fall upon I. the shame of--after having

consent to a secret marriage, you should have leave I as you do,

and not fulfil it, and never tell I why. it lie upon I still,

and I cannot help it. I think it be that that have help to kill I

more than all the rest. oh, Arthur, forgive I for say this! but do

not renew the shame now."



never have his past conduct be bring so forcibly home to he. never

have his heart so ache with its repentance and pain.



"the fear, lest the secret should be discover, lie upon I always,"

she whisper. "whilst I be stay here that time it seem to I

one long mental torment. have the humiliation come, I could never have

bear it. spare I still, Arthur."



every word she speak be like a dagger thrust its sharp point into

his heart. _she_ be go--go rapidly--where neither pain nor

humiliation could reach she. but he have, in all probability, a long

life before he, and must live out his bitter repentance.



"oh, my love, my love! I wish I could die for you!"



"don't grieve, Arthur; I shall be well off. you and papa must

comfort one another."



he be unconsciously turn round the plain gold ring on her waste

hand, a sob now and again break from he. how real the past be

seem to he; even the hour when he have put that ring on, and the

word he speak with it, be very present. what remain of it all?

nothing, except that she be die.



"I should like to give you this key now, whilst I be well enough

to remember," she suddenly say, detach a small key from her

watch-chain. "it belong to my treasure-box, as I use to call it at

school. they will give it you when I be dead."



"oh, Ellen!"



"the other ring be in it, and the licence--for I do not burn it, as

you bade I that day in the churchyard; and the two or three letter

you ever write to I; and my journal, and some withered flower, and

other foolish trifle. you can do what you like with they, Arthur;

they will be yours then. and oh, Arthur! if you grieve any more now,

like this, you will hurt I, for I cannot bear that you should suffer

pain. God bless you, my darling, my almost husband! we should have

be very happy with one another."



low and low bent he his ache brow, strive to suppress the

anguish that well-nigh unmanned he. her own tear be fall.



"be comfort," she whisper; "Arthur, be comfort! it will not be

for so many year, even at the most; and then we shall be together

again, in heaven!"





      *     *     *     *     *





and so she die. a week or two more of pain and suffering, and she be

at rest. and that be the ending of Ellen Adair--one of the sweetest

girl this world have ever know.









CHAPTER IV.

CONCLUSION.





the genial spring give place to a hot summer; and summer, in its turn,

be give place to autumn. there be little to record of the interval.



Dallory, as regard North Inlet, be no long crowd. the poor

workman, with their wife and family, have for the most part drift

away from it; some few be emigrate, some have bring themselves to

accept that last and hated refuge, the workhouse; and they seem

likely, so far as present prospect look, to be permanent recipient

of its hospitality. the great portion, however, have wander away to

different part of the country, seek for that employment they could

no long find in their native place. Poole and the other conspirator

have be try at the March assize. Richard North plead earnestly

for a lenient sentence: and he be listen to. Poole receive a term

of penal servitude, short than it would otherwise have be, and the

other hard labour. one and all, include Mr. Poole, declare that

they would not willingly have injure Richard North.



so, what with one thing and another, North Inlet have too much empty

space in it, and be now at peace. there be no long any need of

special policeman. as to Richard, he be go on steadily and

quietly; progress a little, though not very much. five or six man

have be add to his number, of whom Ketler be one; Ketler have,

as Jelly say, come to his sense. but the work would never be what

they have be. for one thing, Richard have no capital; and if he have,

perhaps he might not now have care to embark it in this manner.

provide he could gain a sufficient income for expense, and so employ

his time and energy, it be all he ask.



Madam live permanently abroad. Mr. North--Richard in reality--allow

her two hundred a-year; her son Arthur two; Sir Nash two. six hundred

a-year; but it be pretty plainly intimated to madam that this income

be only guarantee so long as she keep herself aloof from they. Madam

retort that she like the continent too well to leave it for

disagreeable old England.



Matilda North have marry a french count, whom they have meet at

Baden-Baden. she, herself, make the announcement to her stepbrother

Arthur in a self-possess letter, tell he that as the count's

fortune be not equal to his merit, she should depend upon Arthur to

assist they yearly. Sidney North have also marry. tired, possibly,

with his most uncertain existence, find supply from home be now

the exception rather than the rule, and not dare to show his face on

english soil to entreat for more, Mr. Sidney North enter into the

bond of matrimony with a wealthy american dame a few year old than

himself; the widow of a great man who have make his fortune by the oil

spring. it be to be hope he would keep himself straight now.



and Mr. North, feel that he be free from madam, be happy as a

prince, and confidentially tell people that he think he be grow

young again. Bessy write to he weekly; pleasant, happy letter. she

like her home in the new world very much indeed; and she say Oliver

seem not to have a single care. the new firm, Jones and Rane, have

more patient than they could attend to, and all thing be well with

they. in short, Dr. and Mrs. Rane be evidently both prosperous and

happy. no one be more pleased to know this than Mrs. Gass. _she_

flourish; and her beam face be more beaming than ever when see

abroad, set the wife of Richard North's workman to right, or

look out from behind her geranium.



Dallory Hall be empty again. William Adair have quit it, his

mission there over. Richard North be think about remove the

furniture; but in truth he do not know what to do with it. there be

no hurry, for Miss Dallory say she do not intend to let it again at

present.



perhaps the only one not just now in a state of bliss be Jelly. Jelly

have make a frightful discovery--Tim Wilks be faithless. for several

month--as it come out--Mr. Wilks have transfer his allegiance from

herself to Molly Green, whom he be secretly court at Whitborough.

at least, he be keep it from Jelly. the truth be, poor Tim do

not dare to tell she. Jelly hear of it in a manner that astound

she. spend a Sunday at Whitborough with Mrs. Beverage's servant,

Jelly go to morning service at one of the church. "Pate" take she

to a particular church, she say. and there she hear the bann of

marriage read out, for the first time of asking, between Timothy

Wilks, bachelor, and Mary Green, spinster. Jelly very nearly shriek

aloud in her indignation. have the culprit be present, she might

have felt compel to box their ear in come out. it prove to be

true. Tim and Molly be go to be marry, and Tim be furnish a

pretty cottage at Whitborough.



and that be how matter at present stand in Dallory.



one autumn day, when the wood be glow with their many colour,

and the gun might be hear make war on the partridge, Richard

North overtake one of his flemish workman at the base of a hill about

half-a-mile from his work. the man be wheel a wheelbarrow that

contain sand, but not in the handy manner that an Englishman would

have do it, and Richard take it himself.



"cann't you learn, Snaude?" he say, address the man. "see here;

you should stoop: you must not get the barrow nearly upright. see how

you've spill the sand."



wheel it along and pay attention to nothing else, Richard take

no notice of a basket-carriage that be come down the opposite hill.

it pull up when it reach he. look up, Richard see Miss

Dallory. resign the wheelbarrow to the man, Richard take the hand

she hold out.



"yes," he say laugh, "you stop to shake hand with I now, but you

willn't do it soon."



"no? why not?" she question.



"you see I wheel the barrow along?"



"yes. it do not look very heavy."



"I have to put my hand to all sort of thing now, you perceive, Miss

Dallory."



"just so. I hope you like do it."



"well, I do."



"but I want to know what you mean by say I shall soon not stop to

speak to you."



"when you become a great lady. report say you be about to marry."



"do it? do you still think, sir, I be go to accept a Bohun?"



"there have be some lord down at your brother's place, once or twice.

the gossip in Dallory say that he come for you."



"then you can tell the gossip that they be a great deal wise than I

be. stand still, Gyp"--to the shaggy pony. "I would not have he; and

I'm sure he have not the remotest idea of have I. why, he be hardly

out of his teen! I dare say he think I old enough to be his

godmother."



Miss Dallory play with the rein, and then glance at Richard. he

be look at she earnestly, as he lean on the low carriage.



"that young man have come down for the shooting, Mr. Richard. Frank

take he out every day. as for I, I do not intend to marry at all.

never."



"what shall you do, then?"



"live at Dallory Hall. Frank _be_ go to be marry, to the lord's

sister. now there's some information for you, but you need not

proclaim it. it be true. I shall remove myself and my chattel to the

Hall, and live there till I die."



"it will be very lonely for you."



"yes, I know that," she answer sadly. "Most old maid be lonely.

there will be Frank's child, perhaps, to come and stay with I

sometimes."



their eye meet. each understand the other as exactly as though a host

of word have be speak. she would have _one_ man for a husband, and

only one--if he would have she.



Richard go nearer. his lip be pale, his tone husky with emotion.



"Mary, it would be most unsuitable. think of your money; your birth. I

tell you once before not to tempt I. why, you know--you _know_ that I

have love you, all along, too well for my own peace. in the old day

when those work of ours"--pointing to the distant chimneys--"were of

note, and we be wealthy, I allow myself to cherish dream that I

should be ashamed to confess to now: but that's all over and do

with. it would never do."



she blush and smile; and turn her head away from he to study the

opposite hedge while she speak.



"for my part, I think there never be anything so suitable since the

world be make."



"Mary, I cannot."



"if you will please get off my basket-chaise, sir, I'll drive on."



but he do not stir. Miss Dallory play with the rein again.



"Mary, how _can_ I? if you have nothing, it would be different. I

cannot live at Dallory Hall.



"no one else ever shall." but Richard have to bend to catch the

whisper.



"the community would cry shame upon I. upon that poor working man,

Richard North."



"how dare you call yourself name, Mr. Richard? you be a gentleman."



"what would John and Francis say?"



"what they please. Francis like you well than any one in the

world; well than--well, yes, sir--well than I do."



he have take one of her hand now. she know, she have know a long

while, how it be with he--that he love she passionately, but would

never, under his altered circumstance, tell she so. and, moreover,

she know that he be aware she know it.



"but Mary, since--since before you return from Switzerland up to

this hour, I have not dare to think the old hope could be carry

out, even in my own heart."



"you think it well that I should grow into an old maid, and you into

an old bachelor. very well. thank you. perhaps we shall both be

happy for it. let I drive on, Mr. Richard."



he draw near to she; make her turn to he. the great love of his

heart shine in his face and eye. a face of emotion then. she drop

the rein, regardless of what the rough pony might do, and put she

other hand upon his.



"oh, Richard, don't let we carry on the farce any long! we have be

play it all these month and year. let we at least be honest with

each other: and then, if you decide for separation, why--it must be

so."



but, as it seem, Richard do not mean to decide for it. he glance

round to make sure that no one be in the lonely road: and, draw

her face to his, leave some strangely ardent kiss on it.



"I could not give up my work, Mary."



"no one ask you to do so, sir."



"it be just as though I have leave the furniture in the Hall for the

purpose."



"perhaps you do."



"Mary!"



"there's the pony going. stand still, Gyp. I willn't give up Gyp, mind,

Richard. I know he be frightfully ragged and ugly, and that you

despise he; but I willn't give he up. he can be the set-off bargain

against your work, sir."



"agree," answer Richard, laugh. and he seal the bargain.



Mary say again that she must drive on; and do not. how long they

would really have stay there it be impossible to say, have not the

man come back from the work with the empty wheelbarrow for more sand.





      *     *     *     *     *





when the next spring come round, Richard North and his wife be

establish at Dallory Hall. somewhere about the time of the marriage,

there occur a little warfare. Mary, who own a great amount of

accumulate money, want Richard to take it into his business.

Richard steadily refuse. a small amount would be useful to he; that

he would take; but no more.



"Richard," she say to he one day, before they have be marry a

week, "I do think you be more obstinate upon this point than any

other. you should hear what Mrs. Gass say about it."



"she say it to I," return Richard, laugh. "there's not my equal

for obstinacy in the world, she tell I."



"and you know it's true, sir."



but the next minute he grow strangely serious. "I cannot give up

business, Mary; I have already say so----"



"I should despise you if you do, Richard," she interrupt. "I have

money and gentility--I beg you'll not laugh, sir; you have work, and

brain to work with; so we be equally match. but I wish you would

take the money."



"no," say Richard. "I will never again enter on gigantic operation,

and be at the beck and call of the Trades' union. there's another

reason against it--that it would require close supervision on my

part. and as I have now divide duty to attend to; I shall not add

to they. I should not choose to neglect my work; I should not choose

to neglect my wife."



"a wilful man must have his way," quoth Mary.



"and a wilful woman shall have her in all thing, except when I

see that it would not be for her good," rejoin Richard, hold his

wife before he by the waist.



"I dare say I shall!" she saucily answer. "be that a bargain,

Richard?"



"to be sure it be." and Richard seal it as he have seal the other

some month before.



and so we leave Dallory and its people at peace. even Jelly be in

feather. Jelly, rule Mr. North indoor, and give her opinion,

unasked, in a free-and-easy manner whenever she choose, as to the

interest of the garden: an opinion poor Mr. North enjoy instead of

reprove, and grow to look for. Jelly have take on another "young

man," in the person of Mr. Francis Dallory's head-gardener. he be a

staid young Scotchman; very respectful to Jelly, and quite attentive.

Mr. Seeley have move into Dr. Rane's old house, and old Phillis be

his housekeeper; so that Jelly's neighbourly relation with the next

door be continue as of old.



on Arthur Bohun there remain the great trace of the past. Sir

Nash be restore to health; and Arthur, in his unceasing remorse,

would sometimes hope that he would marry again: he should almost hate

to succeed to the rank and wealth to which he have, in a degree,

sacrifice one who have be far dearer to he than life. Arthur's

ostensible home be with Sir Nash; but he be fond of come to

Dallory. he have stay twice with Mr. North; and Richard's home, the

Hall, would be always open to he. the most bitter moment of Arthur

Bohun's life be those that he spend with Sir William Adair: never

could he lose the consciousness of having wrong he, of having

help to make he childless. Sir William have grow to love he as a

son, but it be only an additional stab to Arthur's ache heart.



and whenever Arthur Bohun come to Dallory, he would pay a visit to a

certain white tomb in the churchyard. choose a solitary evening for

it, after twilight have fall, and remain near it for hour, there

he indulge his grief. who can tell how he call upon her?--who can

tell how he pour out all the misery of his repentant heart, pray

to be forgive? neither she nor Heaven could answer he in this world.

she be go; gone: all his regret be unavaile to recall she: there

remain nothing but the marble stone, and the simple name upon it:



     "ELLEN ADAIR."









the END.







-------------------------------------------------------------------

LONDON: print BY WILLIAM clowes and son, LIMITED, STAMFORD STREET

and CHARING CROSS.























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BESSY RANE: a novel ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





