The project Gutenberg eBook of Dynevor Terrace; or, the Clue of Life — volume 1

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Dynevor Terrace; or, the Clue of Life — volume 1



author: Charlotte M. Yonge



Release date: July 1, 2003 [eBook #4235]

                most recently update: December 27, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by Sandra Laythorpe.  html version by Al Haines.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK DYNEVOR TERRACE; OR, the clue of life — volume 1 ***









produce by Sandra Laythorpe.  html version by Al Haines.



















DYNEVOR TERRACE:



or



the clue of life.





BY



CHARLOTTE M. YONGE.





the AUTHOR of 'the heir of redclyffe'









content



      I.  CHARLOTTE.

     II.  an OLD SCHOOLMISTRESS.

    III.  LOUIS LE DEBONNAIRE.

     IV.  THISTLE-DOWN.

      V.  the two minister.

     VI.  farewell.

    VII.  GOSSAMER.

   VIII.  a truant disposition.

     IX.  the FAMILY COMPACT.

      X.  the better part of VALOUR.

     XI.  a HALTING proposal.

    XII.  CHILDE ROLAND.

   XIII.  FROSTY, but KINDLY.

    XIV.  NEW inhabitant.

     XV.  MOTLEY the only wear.

    XVI.  the fruit of the CHRISTMAS-tree

   XVII.  the rival.

  XVIII.  rest for the WEARY.

    XIX.  MOONSHINE.

     XX.  the FANTASTIC VISCOUNT.

    XXI.  the HERO of the barricade.

   XXII.  burgomaster and great one-eyer.









volume I





 who wisdom's sacred prize would win,

 must with the fear of God begin;

 immortal praise and heavenly skill

 have they who know and do his will.

                            New Version.









CHAPTER I.



CHARLOTTE.



  farewell reward and fairy,

  good housewife now may say,

  for now foul slut in dairy

  may fare as well as they.

                     BP. CORBET.





an ancient leafless stump of a horse-chesnut stand in the middle of a

dusty field, border on the south side by a row of house of some

pretension.  against this stump, a pretty delicate fair girl of

seventeen, whose short lilac sleeve reveal slender white arm, and

her tight, plain cap tress of flaxen hair that many a beauty might

have envy, be bang a cocoa-nut mat, chant by way of

accompaniment in a sort of cadence--



 'I have find out a gift for my fur,

  I have find where the wood-pigeon breed;

  but let I the plunder forbear,

  she will say--'



'hollo, I'll give you a shilling for 'em!' be the unlooke-for

conclusion, cause she to start aside with a slight scream, as there

stand beside she a stout, black-eye, round-face lad, his ruddy cheek

and loutish air show more rusticity than agree with his keen, saucy

expression, and mechanic's dress.



'so that's what you call beat a mat,' say he, catch it from her

hand, and mimic the tender clasp of her little finger. 'D'ye

think it's alive, that you use it so gingerly?  look here! give it he

well!' as he make it resound against the tree, and emit a whirlwind of

dust.  'lay it into he with some jolly good song fit to fetch a stroke

home with!  why, I hear my young Lord say, when Shakspeare be a

butcher, he use to make speech at the calf, as if they be for a

sacrifice, or ever he could lift a knife to 'em.'



'Shakspeare!  he as write Romeo and Juliet, and all that!  he a

butcher!  why, he be a poet!' cry the girl, indignantly.



'if you know well than Lord Fitzjocelyn, you may!' say the boy.



'I couldn't have think it!' sigh the maiden.



'it's the good of it!' cry the lad, eagerly.  'why, Charlotte, don't

ye see, he rise hisself.  anybody may rise hisself as have a mind to it!'



'yes, I've read that in book say Charlotte.  'you can, man can, Tom,

if you would but educate yourself like Edmund! in the _old English

Baron_.  but then, you know whose son you be.  there cann't be no

catastrophe--'



'I don't want none,' say Tom.  'we be all equal by birth, so the

orator prove without a doubt, and we'll show it one of these day. a

rare lady I'll make of you yet, Charlotte Arnold.'



'o hush, Tom, I can never be a lady--and I cann't stand dawdling

here--nor you neither.  'Tisn't right to want to be out of our station,

though I do wish I live in an old castle, where the maidens work

tapestry, and hear minstrel, never have no stair to scour. come, give

I my mat, and thank you kindly!'



'I'll take 'em in,' say Tom, shoulder they.  ''tis breakfast-hour,

so I think I'd just run up and ax you when my young Lord go up to

Oxford.



'he be go,' say Charlotte; 'he be here yesterday to take leave of

missus. Mr. James go later--'



'gone!' cry Tom.  'if he don't say he'd come and see I at Mr.

Smith's!'



'do you want to speak to he?'



'I want to see he particular.  there's a thing lay heavy on my

mind.  you see that place down in Ferny dell--there's a steep bank down

to the water.  well, my young Lord be very keen about build a kind

of step there in the summer, and he and I settle the stone, and I

be to cement 'em.  by come Mr. Frost, and find fault, what I

think he'd no call to; so I fling down my trowel, and wouldn't go on

for he!  I be so mortal angry, I would not go back to the work; and I

believe my Lord forget it--and then he go back to college; and

Frampton and Gervas, they put on I, and you know how 'twas I come away

from Ormersfield. I be not go to say a word to one of that lot! but

if I could see Lord Fitzjocelyn, I'd tell he they stone arn't fix;

and if the frost get into 'em, there'll be a pretty go next time

there's a tolerablish weight!  but there--it be his own look-out!  if

he never think it worth his while to keep his promise, and come and

see me--'



'o Tom! that ben't right!  he only forgot--I hear Mrs. Beckett tell

he he'd forget his own head if it ben't fix on, and Mr. James be

always at he.'



'forget!  Aye, there's nothing gentlefolk forget like poor folk. but

I've do with he!  let he look out--I keep my promise to he long

enough, but if he don't keep his'n--'



'for shame, for shame, Tom!  you don't mean it!' cry Charlotte. 'but,

oh!' with a different tone, 'give I the mat! there's the old Lord and

Mr. Poynings ride down the terrace!'



'I ben't ashamed of nothing!' say the lad, proudly; and as Charlotte

snatch away the mat, and vanish like a frightened hare, he stalk

along like a village Hampden, muttering, 'the old tyrant shall see

whether I'm to be trample on!' and with both hand in his pocket, he

gaze straight up into the face of the grave elderly gentleman, who

never even perceive he.  he could merely bandy glance with Poynings,

the groom, and he be so far from indifferent that he significantly

lift up the end of his whip.  nothing could more have gratify Tom,

who retort with a grimace and murmur, 'don't you wish you may catch

I?  you jealous syc--what be the word, sick of uncle or aunt, be

it, that the orator call 'em?  he'd say I'd a good miss of be one

of that sort, and that my young Lord there open my eye in time.  no

well than the rest of 'em--'



and the clock strike eight, he quicken his pace to return to his

work.  he have for the two or three previous year be nominally under

the gardener at Ormersfield, but really a sort of follower and

favourite to the young heir, Lord Fitzjocelyn--a position which have

bring on he dislike from the superior servant, who be not

propitiate by his independent and insubordinate temper.  fault on

every side have lead to his dismissal; but Lord Fitzjocelyn have place

he at an ironmonger's shop in the town of Northwold, where he have be

just long enough to become accessible to the various temptation of a

lad in such a situation.



Charlotte sped hastily round the end of the block of building, hurry

down the little back garden, and fly breathlessly into her own

kitchen, as a haven of refuge, but she find a tall, stiff starch,

elderly woman stand just within the door, and hear she last word.



'well! as I say, 'tis no concern of mine; only I think it the part

of a friend to give you a warning, when I see it with my own eyes!--

ah! here she be!' as Charlotte drop into a chair.  'yes, yes, Miss,

you need not think to deceive I; I see you from Miss Mercy's window--'



'saw what?' faintly exclaim Charlotte.



'you know well enough,' be the return.  'you may think to blind Mrs.

Beckett here, but I know what over good-nature to young girl come to.

pretty use to make of your fine scholarship, to be encourage

follower and sweetheart, at that time in the morning too!'



'speak up, Charlotte,' say the other occupant of the room, a pleasant

little brisk woman, with soft brown, eye, a clear pale skin, and a

face smooth, in spite of nearly sixty year; 'speak up, and tell Mrs.

Martha the truth, that you never encourage no one.'



the girl's face be all one flame, but she rise up, and clasp she

hand together, exclaimed--'Me encourage!  I never think of what Mrs.

Martha say!  I don't know what it be all about!'



'here, Jane Beckett,' cry Mrs. Martha; 'd'ye see what 'tis to

vindicate she!  will you take her word against mine, that she's be

gossip this half hour with that young rogue as be turn off at

Ormersfield?'



'Tom Madison!  cry the girl, in utter amaze.  'oh! Mrs. Martha!'



'well! I cann't stop!' say Martha. 'I must get Miss Faithfull's

breakfast! but if you be under I, Miss Charlotte, I can tell you it

would be well for you!  you'll sup sorrow yet, and you'll both

recollect my advice, both of you.'



Wherewith the Cassandra depart, and Charlotte, throw her apron

over her face, begin to cry and sob piteously.



'my dear! what be it now? exclaim her kind companion, pull down

her apron, and try to draw down first one, then the other of the

arm which persist in veil the crimson face.  'surely you don't

think missus or I would mistrust you, or think you'd take up with the

like of he!'



'how could she be so cruel--so spiteful,' sob Charlotte, 'when he

only come to ask one question, and do a good turn for I with the

mat.  I never think of such a thing.  Sweetheart, indeed!  so cruel

of she!'



'bless I!' say Jane, 'girl use to think it only civility to say

they have a sweetheart!'



'don't, Mrs. Beckett!  I hate the word!  I don't want no such thing! I

willn't never speak to Tom Madison again, if such construction be to be

put on it!'



'well, after all, Charlotte dear, that will be the safe way. you be

young yet, and well not to think of settle, special if you ben't

sure of one that be steady and religious, and you'd well keep

yourself up, and not get a name for gossip--though there's no harm

do yet, so don't make such a work.  bless I, if I don't hear his

lordship's voice!  he ben't never come so early!'



'yes, he be,' say Charlotte, recover from her sob; 'he ride up as

I come in.'



'well, to be sure, he be come to breakfast!  I hope nothin's amiss with

my young Lord!  I must run up with a cup and plate, and you, make the

place tidy, in case Mr. Poynings come in.  you'd well run into the

scullery and wash your face; 'tis all tear!  you're a terrible one to

cry, Charlotte!' with a kind, cheer smile and caress.



Mrs. Beckett bustle off, leave Charlotte to restore herself to the

little handy piece of household mechanism which kind, patient, motherly

training have render she.



Charlotte Arnold have be fairly educate at a village school, and

tenderly bring up at home till leave an orphan, when she have be

take into her present place.  she have much native refinement and

imagination, which, half cultivate, produce a curious mixture of

romance and simplicity.  her insatiable taste for reading be

meritorious in the eye of Mrs. Beckett, who, unlearn herself,

think any book well than 'gad about,' and, after hear she

daily portion of the Bible, listen to the most adventurous romance,

with a sense of pleasure and duty in keep the girl to her book.

she love the little fragile orphan, teach she, and have patience with

she, and trust the true high sound principle which she recognise in

Charlotte, amid much that she could not fathom, and set down

alternately to the score of scholarship and youth.



Taste, modesty, and timidity be guard to Charlotte.  a broad stare

be terror to she, and she have many a fictitious horror, as well as

well-found one.  truly she say, she hate the broad word Martha

have use.  one who crave a true knight to be twit with a

sweetheart!  Martha and Tom Madison be almost equally distasteful, as

connect with such a reproach; and the little maiden draw into

herself, promenade her fancy in castle and tournament, keep under

Jane's wing, and be uphold by she as a sensible, prudent girl.









CHAPTER II.



an OLD SCHOOLMISTRESS.



  I praise thee, matron, and thy due

  be praise, heroic praise and true;

  with admiration I behold

  Thy gladness unsubdued and bold.

  Thy look and gesture all present

  the picture of a life well spend;

  our human nature throw away

  its second twilight and look gay.

                             WORDSWORTH.





Unconscious of Charlotte's flight and Tom's affront, the Earl of

Ormersfield ride along Dynevor Terrace--a row of house with handsome

cement front, tragic and comic mask alternate over the downstairs

window, and the centre of the block adorn with a pediment and

colonnade; but there be an air as if something ail the place: the

garden be weedy, the glass door hazy, the cement stain and

scar, and many of the window closed and dark, like eye want

speculation, or with merely the dreary word 'to be let' enliven

their blank gloom.  at the house where Charlotte have vanish, he draw

his rein, and open the gate--not one of the rusty one--he enter

the garden, where all be trim and fresh, the shadow of the house lie

across the sward, and preserve the hoar-frost, which, in the

sunshine, be melt into diamond drop on the linger China rose.



without ring or knock, he pass into a narrow, carpetless vestibule,

unadorne except by a beautiful blue Wedgewood vase, and lay down

hat and whip, mount the bare staircase, long since divest of all

paint or polish.  avoid the door of the principal room, he open

another at the side, and stand in a flood of sunshine, pour in from

the window, which look over all the roof of the town, to the

coppice and moorland of Ormersfield.  on the bright fire sing a

kettle, a white cat purr on the hearth, a canary twitter merrily in

the window, and the light smile on a languish Dresden shepherdess

and her lover on the mantelpiece, and dance on the ceiling, reflect

from a beautifully chase silver cream-jug--an inconsistent companion

for the homely black teapot and willow-pattern plate, though the two

cup of rare indian porcelain be not unworthy of it.  the furniture

be the same mixture of the ordinary and the choice, either worn and

shabby, or such as would suit a virtuoso, but the whole arrange with

taste and care that make the effect bright, pleasant, and comfortable.

Lord Ormersfield stand on the hearth-rug waiting.  his face be that of

one who have learn to wait, more considerate than acute, and bear

the stamp both of toil and suffering, as if grief have take away all

mobility of expression, and leave a stern, thoughtful steadfastness.



presently a lady enter the room.  her hair be white as snow, and she

could not have see less than seventy-seven year; but beauty be not

go from her feature--smile be still on her lip, brightness in

her clear hazel eye, buoyancy in her tread, and alertness and dignity

in her tall, slender, unbent figure.  there be nothing so remarkable

about she as the elasticity as well as sweetness of her whole look and

bearing, as if, while she have something to love, nothing could be

capable of crush she.



'you here!' she exclaim, hold out her hand to her guest.  'you be

come to breakfast.'



'thank you; I wish to see you without interrupt your day's work.

have you many scholar at present?'



'only seven, and three go into school at Easter.  Jem and Clara, wish

I to undertake no more, but I should sorely miss the little fellow. I

wish they may do I as much credit as Sydney Calcott.  he write himself

to tell I of his success.'



'I be glad to hear it.  he be a very promising young man.'



'I tell he I shall come to honour, as the old dame who teach he to

spell.  my scholar may make a Dr. Busby of I in history.'



'I be afraid your preferment will depend chiefly on James and young

Calcott.'



'Nay, Louis tell I that he be go to read wonderfully hard; and if

he choose, he can do more than even Sydney Calcott.'



'if!' say the Earl.



Jane here enter with another cup and plate, and Lord Ormersfield sit

down to the breakfast-table.  after some minute' pause he say, 'have

you hear from Peru?'



'not by this mail.  have you?'



'yes, I have.  Mary be come home.'



'Mary!' she cry, almost spring up--'Mary Ponsonby?  this be good

news--unless,' as she watch his grave face, 'it be her health that

bring she.'



'it be.  she have consult the surgeon of the Libra, a very able man,

who tell she that there be absolute need of good advice and a colder

climate; and Ponsonby have consent to let she and her daughter come

home in the Libra.  I expect they in February.'



'my poor Mary!  but she will get well away from he.  I trust he be

not come!'



'not he,' say Lord Ormersfield.



'dear, dear Mary!  I have scarcely dare to hope to see she again,'

cry the old lady, with tear in her eye.  'I hope she will be

allow to be with we, not keep in London with his sister.  London do

she no good.'



'the very purport of my visit,' say Lord Ormersfield, 'be to ask

whether you could do I the favour to set aside your scholar, and

enable I to receive Mrs. Ponsonby at home.'



'thank you--oh, thank you.  there be nothing I should like well, but

I must consider--'



'Clara would find a companion in the young Mary in the holiday, and

if James would make Fitzjocelyn his charge, it would complete the

obligation.  it would be by far the good arrangement for Mary's

comfort, and it would be the great satisfaction to I to see she

with you at Ormersfield.'



'I believe it would indeed,' say the old lady, more touched than the

outward manner of the Earl seem to warrant.  'I would--you know I

would do my very well that you and Mary should be comfortable

together'--and her voice trembled--'but you see I cannot promise all at

once.  I must see about these little boy.  I must talk to Jem. in

short, you must not be disappointed'--and she put her hand before she

face, try to laugh, but almost overcome.



'Nay, I do not mean to press you,' say Lord Ormersfield, gently; 'but

I think, since James have have the fellowship and Clara have be at

school, that you wish to give up your pupil.'



'so I do,' say the lady, but still not yield absolutely.



'for the rest, I be very anxious that James should accept Fitzjocelyn

as his pupil.  I have always consider their friendship as the good

hope, and other plan have have so little success, that--'



'I'm not go to hear Louis abuse!' she exclaim, gaily.



'yes,' say Lord Ormersfield, with a look nearly approach a smile,

'you be the last person I ought to invite, if I wish to keep your

nephew unspoile.'



'I wish there be any one else to spoil he!'



'for his sake, then, come and make Ormersfield cheerful.  it will be

far well for he.'



'and for you, to see more of Jem,' she add.  'if he be your, what

would you say to such hour?'



the last word be aim at a young man who come briskly into the

room, and as he kiss she, and shake hand with the Earl, answer in

a quick, bright tone, 'shocking, aye.  all owe to sit up till

one!'



'read?' say the Earl.



'read,' he answer, with a sort of laugh satisfaction in dash

aside the approval express in the query, 'but not quite as you

suppose.  see here,' as he hold up maliciously a railway novel.



'I be afraid I know where it come from,' say Lord Ormersfield.



'exactly so,' say James.  'it be Fitzjocelyn's desertion of it that

excite my curiosity.'



'indeed.  I should have think his desertion far too common to excite

any curiosity.'



'by no mean.  he always have a reason.'



'a plausible one.'



'More than plausible,' cry James, excitement sparkle in his vivid

black eye.  'it happen that this be the very book that you would most

rejoice to see distasteful to he--low morality, false principle,

morbid excitement, not a line that ought to please a healthy mind.'--



'yet it have interest enough for you.'



'I be not Fitzjocelyn.'



'you know how to plead for he.'



'I speak simple truth,' bluntly answer James, run his hand

through his black hair, to the ruin of the morning smoothness, so that

it, as well as the whole of his quick, dark countenance seem to have

undergo a change from sunny south to stormy north in the few moment

since his first appearance.



after a short silence, Lord Ormersfield turn to he, say 'I have

be beg a favour of my aunt, and I have another to ask of you,'

and repeat his explanation, beg he to undertake the tutorship of

his son.



'I shall not be at liberty at Easter,' say James, 'I have all but

undertake some man at Oxford.'



'oh, my dear Jem!' exclaim the old lady, 'be that settle beyond

alteration?'



'I'm not go to throw they over.'



'then I shall hope for you at Midsummer,' say the Earl.



'we shall see how thing stand,' he return, ungraciously.



'I shall write to you,' say Lord Ormersfield, still undaunted, and

soon after take his leave.



'cool!' cry James, as soon as he be go.  'to expect you to give up

your school at his beck, to come and keep house for he as long as it

may suit he!'



'Nay, Jem, he know how few boy I have, and that I intend to give

they up.  you don't mean to refuse Louis?' she say, imploringly.



'I shall certainly not take he at Easter.  it would be a mere farce

intend to compensate to we for give up the school, and I'll not

lend myself to it while I can have real work.'



'at Midsummer, then.  you know he will never let Louis spend a long

vacation without a tutor.'



'I hate to be at Ormersfield,' proceed James, vehemently, 'to see

Fitzjocelyn browbeaten and contradict every moment, and myself set up

for a model.  I may steal a horse, while he may not look over the wall!

do you observe the inconsistency?--angry with the poor fellow first

for have the book, and then for not read the whole, while it

become amiable and praiseworthy in I to burn out a candle over it!'



'ah! that be my concern.  I tell he he would sing another note if you

be his son.'



'I'd soon make he!  I would not stand what Louis do.  the more he be

set down and sneer at, the more debonnaire he look, till I could

rave at he for take it so easily.'



'I hope you might have hinder they from fret each other, as they

do so often.'



'I should only be a fresh element of discord, while his lordship will

persist in make I his pattern young man.  it make I hate myself,

especially as Louis be such an unaccountable fellow that he willn't.'



'I be sorry you dislike the plan so much.'



'do you mean that you wish for it, grandmamma? cry he, turn full

round on she with an air of extreme amazement.  'if you do, there's an

end of it; but I think you value nothing more than an independent

home.'



'nor would I give it up on any account,' say she.  'I do not imagine

this could possibly last for more than a few month, or a year at the

utmost.  but you know, dear Jem, I would do nothing you do not like.'



'that's nothing to the purpose,' reply James.  'though it be to be

consider whether Ormersfield be likely to be the good preparation for

Clara's future life.  however, I see you wish it--'



'I confess that I do, for a few month at least, which need interfere

neither with Clara nor with you.  I have not see Lord Ormersfield so

eager for many year, and I should be very sorry to prevent those two

from be comfortably together in the old home--'



'and cann't that be without a chaperon?' exclaim James, laugh.

'why, his lordship be fifty-five, and she cann't be much less.  that be

a good joke.'



'it be not punctilio,' say his grandmother, look distressed.  'it

be needful to be on the safe side with such a man as Mr. Ponsonby. my

fear be that he may send her home with order not to come near we.'



'she use to be always at Ormersfield in the old time.'



'yes, when my sister be alive.  ah! you be too young to know about

those matter then.  the fact be, that thing have come to such a pass

from Mr. Ponsonby's neglect and unkindness, that Lord Ormersfield,

stand in the place of her brother, think it right to interfere.

his mother go to London with he, to bring poor Mary and her little

girl back to Ormersfield, and there they be till my sister's death,

when of course they could not remain.  Mr. Ponsonby have just get his

appointment as british envoy in Peru, and wish she to go with he.

it be much against Lord Ormersfield's advice, but she think it she

duty, poor dear.  I believe he positively hate Lord Ormersfield; and

as if for a parting unkindness, he leave his little girl at school with

order to spend her holiday with his sister, and never to be with we.'



'that account for it!' say James.  'I never know all this! nor why we

be so entirely cut off from Mary Ponsonby.  I wonder what she be now!

she be a droll sturdy child in those day!  we use to call she

Downright Dunstable!  she be almost of the same age as Louis, and a

great deal stouter, and use to fight for he and herself too. have not

she be out in Peru?'



'yes, she go out at seventeen.  I believe she be an infinite comfort

to her mother.'



'Poor Mary!  well, we child live in the middle of a tragedy, and

little suspect it!  by the bye, what relation be the Ponsonbys to

we?'



'Mrs. Ponsonby be my niece.  my dear sister, Mary--'



'married Mr. Raymond--yes, I know!  I'll make the whole lucid; I'll

draw up a pedigree, and Louis shall learn it.'  and with elaborate

neatness he write as follow, fill in the date from the first leaf

of an old Bible, after his grandmother have leave the room.  the task,

lightly undertake, become a mournful one, and as he read over his

performance, his countenance vary from the gentleness of regret to a

look of sarcastic pride, as though he feel that the world have deal

hardly by he, and yet disdain to complain.





                                                                              KING ARTHUR

                                                                                   -

                                                                 Pendragons and dynevor innumerable

                                                                                    -

                                                                        Roland Dynevor, d. 1793

                                                                                   -

             1.                                                                    2.                                               3.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



             -                                                                     -                                             -



  Catharine, m. James Frost Dynevor, Esq.                         Elizabeth, m. Jocelyn, 3rd Earl of Ormersfield           Mary, m. Ch. Raymond, Esq.

   b. 1770            b. 1765                                       b. 1772          b. 1760                               b. 1774     d.1802

                      d. 1816                                       d. 1835          d. 1833                               d. 1800



  1.                                     2.

  --------------------------------------------------                 Jocelyn, m. Louisa Villars,                           Mary, m. Robert Ponsonby Esq.,



  Henry Roland m. Frances Preston    Oliver J. Frost                4th Earl of    b. 1805                                 b. 1796    British Envoy

  Frost Dynevor        b. 1802          Dynevor                     Ormersfield    d. 1826                                                in Peru.

    b. 1794            d. 1832          b. 1797                       b. 1792

    d. 1832



  1.                  2.             3.           4.        5.

  ------------------------------------------------------------

  James Roland      Frances      Catharine   Oliver      Clara            Louis Fitzjocelyn                                Mary Ponsonby

  Frost Dynevor     b. 1826       b. 1827    b. 1829     b. 1831         Viscount Fitzjocelyn                                 b. 1826

   b. 1824          d. 1832       d. 1832    d. 1832                            b. 1826.

  Fellow of St.

  F. College,

  Oxford.





'since 1816,' mutter James, as he finish.  'thirty year of

drudgery!  when shall I be able to relieve she?  ha!  O. J. F. Dynevor,

Esquire, if it be you who be come from Peru, you would find a

score to settle!'



he run down stair to assist his grandmother in the latin lesson of

her little school, the usual employment of his vacation.



Catharine Dynevor have begin life with little prospect of spend

nearly half of it as mistress of a school.



her father be the last male of the dynevor of Cheveleigh--a family

mount up to the day of the Pendragons--and she have be make to

take the place of an eld son, inherit the extensive land

property on condition that her name and arm should be assume in case

of her marriage.  her choice be one of the instance in which her

affection have the mastery over her next strong characteristic,

family pride.  she marry a highly-educate and wealthy gentleman, of

good family, but of mercantile connexion, such as her father, if

live, would have disdain.  her married life be, however, perfectly

unclouded, her ample mean give she the power of dispense joy, and

her temperament be so blithe and unselfish that no pleasure ever

pal upon she.  Cheveleigh be a proverb for hospitality, affording

unfailing fete for all age, full of a graceful ease and freedom that

inspire enjoyment.



Mr. Frost Dynevor be a man of refined taste, open-handed even to

extravagance, liberal in all his appointment, and gratify to the

utmost his love of art and decoration, while his charity and generous

action be hearty and lavish enough to satisfy even his warm-hearted

wife.



join with all this be a strong turn for speculation.  when the mind

have once become absorb in earthly vision of wealth and prosperity,

the excitement exercise such a fascination over the sense that the

judgment lose balance.  Bold assumption be take as certainty, and

make the foundation of fresh fabric--the very power of discerning

between fact and possibility depart, and, in mere good-will, man,

honest and honourable at heart, risk their own and their neighbour'

property, and ruin their character and good name, by the very action

most foreign to to their nature, ere it have fall under the strong

delusion.



Mr. Frost Dynevor have the misfortune to live in a country rich in

mineral wealth, and to have a brother-in-law easily guide, and with

more love of figure than power of investigate estimate on a large

scale.  Mines be set on foot, company establish, and building

commence, and the result be only to be parallel by those of the

chalybeate spring discover by Mr. Dynevor at the little town of

Northwold, which be pronounce by his favourite hanger-on to be

destine 'literally to cut the throat of Bath and Cheltenham.'



some town be say to have require the life of a child ere their

foundation could be lay.  many a speculation have swallow a life and

fortune before its time for thrive have come.  Mr. Frost Dynevor and

Lord Ormersfield be the foremost victim to the Cheveleigh iron

foundry and the Northwold bath.  the close of the war bring a

commercial crisis that their company could not stand; and Mr.

Dynevor's death spare he from the sight of the crash, which his

talent and sagacity might possibly have avert.  he have show no

misgiving, but, no soon be he remove from the helm, than the

vessel be find on the brink of destruction.  enormous sum have be

sink without tangible return, and the liability of the company far

surpass anything that they have realize.



Lord Ormersfield be stunned and helpless.  Mrs. Dynevor have but one

idea--namely, to sacrifice everything to clear her husband's name. her

son be mere boy, and the only person who prove himself able to act

or judge be the heir of Ormersfield, then about four-and-twenty, who

come forward with sound judgment and upright dispassionate sense of

justice to cope with the difficulty and clear away the involvement.



he join his father in mortgage land, sacrifice timber, and

reduce the establishment, so as to set the estate in the way of

finally become free, though at the expense of rigid economy and

self-denial.



Cheveleigh could not have be save, even have the heiress not be

willing to yield everything to satisfy the just claim of the

creditor.  she be happy when she hear that it would suffice, and

that no one would be able to accuse her husband of having wrong he.

but for this, she would hardly have submit to retain what her nephew

succeed in securing for she--namely, an income of about 150 pound

per annum, and the row of house call Dynevor Terrace, one of the

building venture at Northwold.  this be the sole dependence with

which she and her son quit the home of their forefather.  'never

mind, mother,' say Henry, kiss she, to prevent the tear from

spring, 'home be wherever we be together!' 'never fear, mother,'

echo Oliver, with knitted brow and clench hand, 'I will win it

back.'



Oliver be a quiet lad, of diligent, methodical habit, and willingly

accept a clerkship in a mercantile house, which owe some obligation

to his father.  at the end of a couple of year he be send to reside

in South America; and his parting word to his mother were--'When you

see I again, Cheveleigh shall be yours.'



'oh, my boy, take care.  remember, 'they that haste to be rich shall

not be innocent.''



that be the last time she have see Oliver.



her great object be to maintain herself independently and to complete

Henry's education as a gentleman.  with this view she take up her abode

in the least eligible of her house at Northwold, and, drop the

aristocratic name which alone remain of her heiress-ship, open a

school for little boy, declare that she be rejoice to recall the

day when Henry and Oliver wear frock and learn to spell. if any

human being could sweeten the Latin Grammar, it be Mrs. Frost, with

the motherliness of a dame, and the refinement of a lady, unfaile

sympathy and buoyant spirit, she love each urchin, and each urchin

love she, till she have become a sort of adopt grandmamma to all

Northwold and the neighbourhood.



Henry go to Oxford.  he gain no scholarship, take no honour, but

he fall neither into debt nor disgrace; he lead a goodnatured easy life,

and make a vast number of friend; and when he be not stay with

they, he and his mother be supremely happy together.  he walk with

she, read to she, sing to she, and play with her pupil.  he have

always be bring up as the heir--pet, humour, and wait on--a

post which he fill with goodhumoure easy grace, and which he

continue to fill in the same manner, though he have no one to wait on

he but his mother, and her faithful servant Jane Beckett.  year

pass on, and they seem perfectly satisfied with their division of

labour,--Mrs. Frost keep school, and Henry play the flute, or shoot

over the Ormersfield property.



if any one remonstrate, Henry be always say to be wait for a

government appointment, which be to be procure by the Ormersfield

interest.  More for the sake of his mother than of himself, the

Ormersfield interest be at length exert, and the appointment be

confer on he.  the immediate consequence be his marriage with the

first pretty girl he meet, poor than himself, and all the Ormersfield

interest fail to make his mother angry with he.



the cholera of 1832 put an end to poor Henry's desultory life.  his

house, in a crowded part of London, be especially doom by the deadly

sickness; and out of the whole family the sole survivor be a little

girl of ten month old, and a boy of seven year, the latter of whom

be with his grandmother at Northwold.



Mrs. Frost be one of the woman of whom affection make unconscious

heroine.  she could never sink, as long as there be aught to need she

love and care; and though Henry have be her darling, the very

knowledge that his orphan have no one but herself to depend on, seem

to brace her energy with fresh life.  they be leave entirely on her

hand, her son Oliver make no offer of assistance. he have rise, so as

to be a prosperous merchant at Lima, and he write with regularity and

dutifulness, but he have never propose come to England, and do not

proffer any aid in the charge of his brother's child.  if she have

expect anything from he, she do not say so; she seldom speak of

he, but never without tenderness, and usually as she 'poor Oliver,'

and she abstain from teach her grandchild either to look to

their rich uncle or to mourn over their lose inheritance.  Cheveleigh

be a winter evening's romance with no one but Jane Beckett; and the

grandmother always answer the child's inquiry by bid they

prove their ancient blood by resolute independence, and by that true

dignity which wealth could neither give nor take away.



of that dignity, Mrs. Frost be a perfect model.  a singular compound

of the gentle and the lofty, of tenderness and independence, she have

never cease to be the Northwold standard of the 'real lady,' too mild

and gracious to be regard as proud and poor, and yet too dignified

for any liberty to be attempt, her only fault, that touch of pride,

so ladylike and refine that it be keep out of sight, and never

offend, and everything else so sweet and win that there be

scarcely a being who do not love, as well as honour she, for the

cheerfulness and resignation that have bear she through her many

trial.  her trustful spirit and warm heart have be an elixir of

youth, and have preserve her freshness and elasticity long after her

sister and brother-in-law at Ormersfield have grow aged and sink into

the grave, and even her nephew be fast verge upon more than middle

age.









CHAPTER III.



LOUIS LE DEBONNAIRE.



  I walk by his garden and see the wild bri,

  the thorn and the thistle grow broad and high.

                                        ISC WATTS.





Ormersfield Park be extensive, range into fine break ground, rocky

and overgrown with brushwood; but it bear the mark of retrenchment;

there be hardly a large timber tree on the estate, enclosure have be

begin and desert, and the deer have be sell off to make room for

farmer' cattle, which graze up to the very front door.



the house be of the stately era of Anne, with a heavy portico and

clumsy pediment on the garden side, all the window of the suite of

room open on a broad stone terrace, whence step descend to the

lawn, neatly keep, but sombre, for want of opening in the surround

evergreen.



it be early March, and a lady wrap in a shawl be seat on the

terrace, enjoy the mild gleam of spring, and the freshness of the

sun-warm air, which awake a smile of welcome as it breathe on she

fade cheek, and her eye gaze on the scene, in fond recognition.



it have be the home of Mrs. Ponsonby's childhood; and the slope of

turf and belt of dark ilex be fraught with many a recollection of

girlish musing, youthful vision, and later, interval of tranquillity

and repose.  after fourteen year spend in South America, how many

thread she have to take up again!  she have be as a sister to her

cousin, Lord Ormersfield, and have share more of his confidence than

any other person during their early year, but afterwards their

intercourse have necessarily be confine to brief and guard letter.

she have find he unchanged in his kindness to herself, and she be the

more lead to ponder on the grave, stern impassiveness of his manner to

other, and to try to understand the tone of mind that it indicate.



she recall he as he have be in his first youth--reserve, sensible,

thoughtful, but with the fire of ambition burn strongly within, and

ever and anon flash forth vividly, repress at once as too

demonstrative, but fill she with enthusiastic admiration. she

remember he calmly and manfully meet the shock of the failure,

that would, he know, fetter and encumber he through life--how

resolutely he have face the difficulty, how unselfishly he have put

himself out of the question, how uprightly he have deal by the

creditor, how considerately by his father and aunt, how wise and

moderate his proceeding have be throughout.  she recollect how she

have share his aspiration, and glory in his consistent and prudent

course, without perceive what sorrow have since teach her-that

ambition be to he what pleasure be to other young man.  what have it

not be to she when that ambition begin to be gratify! when he have

become a lead man in Parliament, and by-and-by held office.



there, a change come over the spirit of her dream; and though she

sigh, she could not but smile at the fair picture that rise before

she, of a young girl of radiant loveliness, her golden curl droop

over her neck, and her eye blue as the starry veronica by the hedge

side, smile in the sunshine.  she think of the glance of proud

delight that her cousin have steal at she, to read in her face, that

his Louisa be more than all he have tell she.  Little be need to

make her love the sweet, caress young creature who have throw she

arm round she, and tell she that she see it be all nonsense to tell

she she be such a good, grave, dreadful cousin Mary!  yet there have

be some few misgiving!  so short an acquaintance!  her cousin too

busy for more than be bewitch by the lovely face!  the Villiers

family, so gay and fashionable!  might not all have be foresee? and

yet, of what use would foresight have be?  the gentleman be deeply

attach, and the lady's family court the match, the distinction he

have win, atone for his encumbered fortune.



other scene arise on her memory--Louisa, a triumphant beauty, live

on the homage she receive, all brilliance, grace, and enjoyment. but

there be a darken background which grow more prominent.  Poor

Louisa have little wisdom by nature, and her education have be solely

direct to enable she to shine in the world, not to render she fit for

the companionship of a man of domestic taste, accustom to the

society of superior woman.  there be nothing to fall back upon,

nothing to make a home, she be listless and weary whenever gaiety

fail she--and he, disappoint and baffled, too unbending to draw she

out, too much occupy to watch over she, yield to her taste, and

let she pursue her favourite enjoyment unchecked.



a time have come when childish vanity and frivolity be verge on

levity and imprudence.  expostulation fall powerless on her

shallowness.  Painful be the remembrance of the deprecate roguish

glance of the beautiful eye, and the coaxing caress with which she

kiss away the lecture, and make promise, only to forget they.  she

be like the soulless Undine, with her reckless gaiety and sweetness,

so loving and childish that there be no be displeased with she, so

innocent and devoid of all art or guile in her wilfulness, that her

fault could hardly bear a harsh name than folly.



again, Mrs. Ponsonby think of the day when she herself have be leave

to stay with her old uncle and aunt.  in this very house while her

husband be absent abroad, when she have assist they to receive the

poor young wife, send home in fail health.  she think of the sad

week, so melancholy in the impossibility of make an impression, or

of lead poor louisa from her frivolity, she recall the sorrow of

hear her build on future scheme of pleasure, the dead blank when

her prattle on they fail, the tedium of deep subject, and yet the

bewitch sweetness overpower all vexation at her exceed

silliness.  though full one-and-twenty year have pass, still the

tear thrill warm into Mrs. Ponsonby's eye at the thought of

Louisa's fond clinging to she, in spite of many an admonition and even

exertion of authority, for she alone dare to control the spoilt

child's self-will; and have far more power than the husband, who seem

to act as a check and restraint, and whose presence render she no

long easy and natural.  one confidence have explain the whole.



'you know, Mary dear, I always be so much afraid of he!  if I have have

my own way, I know who it would have be; but there be mamma and

Anna Maria always say how fortunate I be, and that he would be

Prime Minister, and all the rest.  oh! I be far too young and foolish

for he.  he should have marry a sober body, such as you, Mary!  why

do he not?  she wish she have never tease he by go out so much,

and let people talk nonsense; he have be very kind, and she be

not half good enough for he.  that confession, make to he, would have

be balm for ever; but she have not resolution for the effort, and the

day slide away till the bad fear be fulfil.  Nay, be they the

bad fear?  be there not an unavowed sense that it be safe that

she should die, while innocent of all but wayward folly, than be leave

to peril which she be so little able to resist?



the iron expression of grief on her husband's face have forbid all

sympathy, all attempt at consolation.  he have return at once to his

business in London, there to find that poor Louisa's extravagance have

equal her folly, and that he, whose pride it have be to redeem his

paternal property, be throw back by heavy debt on his own account.

this have be know to Mrs. Ponsonby, but by no word from he; he have

never permit the most distant reference to his wife, and yet, with

inconsistency betray his passionate love, he have order one of the

most beautiful and costly monument that art could execute, for her

grave at Ormersfield, and have send brief but explicit order that,

contrary to all family precedent, his infant should bear no name but

Louis.



on this boy Mrs. Ponsonby have found all her hope of a renewal of

happiness for her cousin; but when she have leave England there have be

little amalgamation between the volatile animate boy, and his grave

unbend father.  she could not conjure up any more comfortable

picture of they than the child uneasily perch on his papa's knee,

look wistfully for a way of escape, and his father with an air of

having lift he up as a duty, without know what to do with he or

to say to he.



at her earnest advice, the little fellow have be place as a boarder

with his great aunt, Mrs. Frost, when his grandmother's death have

deprive he of all that be homelike at Ormersfield, he have be with

she till he be old enough for a public school, and she speak of he as

if he be no less dear to she than her own grandchild; but she be

one who see no fault in those whom she love, and Mrs. Ponsonby have

be render a little anxious by a certain tone of dissatisfaction in

Lord Ormersfield's curt mention of his son, and above all by his cold

manner of announce that this be the day when he would return from

Oxford for the Easter vacation.



could it be that the son be unworthy, or have the father's feeling

be too much chill ever to warm again, and all home affection lose

in the strife of politic?  these have ever since engage he, whether

in or out of office, leave little time for society or for any

domestic pursuit.



her reflection be interrupt by a call of 'Mamma!' and her daughter

come run up the step.  Mary Ponsonby have too wide a face for

beauty, and not slightness enough for symmetry, but nothing could be

more pleasing and trustworthy than the open countenance, the steady,

clear, greenish-brown eye, the kind, sensible mouth, the firm chin,

broad though rather short forehead, and healthy though not

highly-colour cheek; and the voice--full, soft, and cheerful--well

agree with the expression, and always bring gladness and promise of

sympathy.



'see, mamma, what we have find for you.'



'violet!  the very purple one that use to grow on the orchard bank!'



'so they do.  Mary know exactly where to look for they,' say Mrs.

Frost, who have follow she up the step.



'and there be Gervas,' continue Mary; 'so charm to hear of you, that

we have almost bring he to see you.'



Mrs. Ponsonby declare herself so much invigorate by Ormersfield air,

that she would go to see her old friend the gardener.  Mary hurry to

fetch her bonnet, and return while a panegyric be go on upon her

ability as maid-of-all-work, in her mother's difficulty with male

housemaid--black and brown--and washerwoman who ride on horseback in

white satin shoe.  she look as if it be hardly natural that any

one but herself should support her mother, when Mrs. Frost tenderly

draw Mrs. Ponsonby's arm into her own; and it be indeed strange to see

the young lady so frail and break, and the eld so strong,

vigorous, and active; as they move along in the sunshine, pause to

note each spring blossom that border the gravel, and enter the

walled kitchen-garden, where espalier run parallel with the walk,

divide the vegetable from the narrow flower-bed, illuminate by

crocus open the depth of their golden heart to the sunbeam and

the revel bee.   Old Gervas, in a patriarchal red waistcoat,

welcome Mrs. Ponsonby with more warmth than flattery.   bless I,

ma'am, I'm right glad to see you; but how old you be!'



'I must come home to learn how to grow young, Gervas,' say she,

smile; 'I hear Betty be as youthful as my aunt here.'



'ay, ma'am, Betty do fight it out tolerablish,' be the reply to this

compliment.



'why, Gervas, what's all that wilderness?  surely those use to be

strawberry bed.'



'yes, ma'am, the early hautboy; don't ye mind?  my young Lord come

and beg it of I, and, bless the lad, I cann't refuse he nothing.'



'he seem to be no gardener!'



'he say he want to make a Botany Bay sort of garden,' say the old

man; 'and sure enough 'tis a garden of weed he's make of it, and mine

into the bargain!  he have a great big thistle here, and the down blow

right over my bed, thick as snow, so that it be three woman's work to

be a match for the weed; but speak to he of pull it up, ye'd think

'twa the heart out of he.'



'do he ever work here?'



'at first it be nought else; he and that young chap, Madison, always

bring dock and darnel out of the hedge, and plant from the

nursery garden, and bring rockwork, and let water in to make a

swamp.  there's no saying what's in the lad's head!  but, of late, he's

not do much but by time lie on the bank, read or speak

verse out loud to himself, or get young Madison off his work to

listen to he.  once he get I to hear; but, ma'am, 'twa all about

fairy and such like, put an ass's head on an honest body as have

lose his way.  I tell he 'twa no good for he or the boy to read such

stuff, and I'd ha' none of it; but, if he choose to read I some good

book, he'd be welcome--for the candle baint so good as they use, and

I cann't get no spectacle to suit I.'



'and do he read to you?'



'a bit or two, ma'am, if the humour take he.  but he's young, you see,

ma'am.  I'm right glad he'll find you here.  my old woman say he do

want a lady about the place to make he comfortable like.'



'and who be this young Madison?' ask Mrs. Ponsonby, when they have

turn from the old gardener.



'to hear Jem, you would believe that he be the most promising plant

rear for Botany Bay!' say Mrs. Frost.  'he be a boy from that wild

place Marksedge, whom Louis take interest in, and make more familiar

than Jem like, or than, perhaps, be good for he.  it do not answer;

the servant do not like it, and it end in his be send to work

with Smith, the ironmonger.  Poor Louis! he take it sadly to heart, for

he have take great pain with the boy.'



'I like to hear the old name, Louis!'



'I cann't help it,' say Mrs. Frost.  'he must be his old aunt Kitty's

Louis le Debonnaire!  don't you, remember your call he so when he

be a baby?'



'oh yes, it have exactly recall to I the sort of gracious look that

he use to have--half sly, half sweet-and so very pretty!'



'it suit he as well now.  he be the kind of be who must have a pet

name;' and Mrs. Frost, hope he might be already arrive, could hardly

slacken her eager step so as to keep pace with her niece's feeble

movement.  she be disappoint; the carriage have return without

Lord Fitzjocelyn.  his hat and luggage be come, but he himself be

miss.  Mrs. Frost be very uneasy, but his father silence

conjecture by say, that it be his usual way, and he would make his

appearance before the evening.  he would not send to meet another

train, say, that the penalty of irregularity must be bear, and the

horse should not suffer for such freak; and he would fain have be

utterly indifferent, but he be evidently listen to every sound, and

betray his anxiety by the decision with which he check all

expression of his aunt's fear.



there be no arrival all that evening, no explanation in the morning;

and Betty Gervas, whom Mary go to visit in the course of the day,

begin to wonder whether the young Lord could be go for a soldier--the

usual fate of all miss village lad.



Mary be on her way home, through the park, along a path skirt the

top of a woode ravine, a dash rivulet make a pleasant murmur

among the rock below, and glance here and there through the

brushwood that clothe the precipitous bank, when, with a sudden

rustling and crackling, a man leap upon the path with a stone in each

hand.



Mary start, but she do not lose her presence of mind, and her next

glance show she that the apparition be not alarming, and be nearly

as much amazed as herself.  it be a tall slight young man, in a suit

of shepherd's plaid, with a fair face and graceful agile form,

recall the word debonnaire as she have yesterday hear it apply. in

instant conviction that this be the truant, she put out her hand by

the same impulse that light his feature with a smile of welcome, and

the year of separation seemed annihilate as he exclaim, 'my cousin

Mary!' and grasp her hand, add, 'I hope I do not frighten you--'



'oh no; but where do you come from?'



'up a hill perpendicular, like Hotspur,' he reply, in soft low quiet

tone, which be a strange contrast to the word.  'no, see here,' and

part the bush he show some rude step, half nature, half art,

lead between the fern and mountain-ash, and look very inviting.



'how delightful!' cry Mary.



'I be glad you appreciate it,' he exclaim; 'I will finish it off now,

and put a rail.  I do not care to go on when I have lose the poor

fellow who help I, but it save a world of distance.'



'it must be very pretty amongst those beautiful fern!'



'you cann't conceive anything more charming,' he continue, with the

same low distinct utterance, but an earnestness that almost take away

her breath.  'there be nine fern on this bank--that be, if we have

the Scolopendrium Loevigatum, as I be persuade.  do you know anything

of fern?  ah! you come from the land of tree fern.'



'oh!  I be so glad to exchange they for our home flower.  primrose

look so friendly and natural.'



'these rock be perfect nest for they, and they even overhang the

river.  this be the good bit of the stream, so rapid and foam that I

must throw a bridge across for Aunt Catharine.  which would be most

appropriate?  I be weigh it as I come up--a simple stone, or a

rustic performance in wood?'



'I should like stone,' say Mary, amuse by his eagerness.



'a rough druidical stone!  that's it!  the idea of rude negligent

strength accord with such place, and this be a stone country.  I know

the very stone!  do come down and see!'



'to-morrow, if you please,' say Mary.  'Mamma must want I, and--but I

suppose they know of your return at home.'



'no, they don't.  they have learn by experience that the right time be

the one never to expect I.'



Mary's eye be all astonishment, as she say, between wonder and

reproof, 'be that on purpose?'



'adventure be thrust on some people,' be the nonchalant reply, with

shoulder depressed, and a twinkle of the eye, as if he purpose

amazing his auditor.'



'I hope you have have an adventure, for nothing else could justify you,'

say Mary, with some humour, but more gravity.



'only a stray infant-errant, cast on my mercy at the junction station.

Nurse, between eat and gossip leave behind--bell ring--engine

squeak--train start--Fitzjocelyn and infant vis-a-vis.'



'you don't mean a baby?'



'a child of five year old, who soon cease howling, and confide his

history to I.  he have be visit grandmamma in London, and be

go home to Illershall; so I find the good plan would be to leave

the train at the next station, and take he home.'



'oh, that be quite another thing!' exclaim Mary, gratify at be

able to like he.  'could you find his home?'



'yes; he know his name and address too well to be lose or mislay. I

would have come home as soon as I have see he in at the door; but the

whole family rush out on I, and conjure I first to dine and then

to sleep.  they be capital people.  Dobbs be superintendent of the

copper and tin work--a thoroughly right-minded man, with a nice,

ladylike wife, the right sort of sound stuff that old England's heart

be make of.  it be worth anything to have see it!  they do

incalculable good with their work-people.  I see the whole concern.'



he launch into an explanation of the process, produce from his

pocket, paper of the ore, in every stage of manufacture, and twist

they up so carelessly, that they would have become a mass of confusion,

have not Mary undertake the repacking.



as they approach the house, the library window be throw up, and

Mrs. Frost came hurry down with outstretche arm.  she be meet by

her young nephew with an overflow of fond affection, before he look

up and beheld his father stand upright and motionless on the high

step.  his excuse be make more lightly and easily than seem to

suit such rigid look; but Lord Ormersfield bend his head as if

resign himself perforce to the explanation, and, with the soften

voice in which he always speak to Mrs. Ponsonby, say, 'here he

be--Louis, you remember your cousin.'



she be positively startle; for it be as if his mother's deep blue

eye be raise to her, and there be the same regular delicate

feature, fair, transparent complexion, and glossy light-brown hair

tint with gold--the same careless yet deprecate glance, the same

engaging smile that warm her heart to he at once, in spite of an air

which be not that of wisdom.



'how little alter you be!' she exclaim.  'if you be not tall

than your father, I should say you be the same Louis that I leave

fourteen year ago.'



'I fear that be the chief change,' say Lord Ormersfield.



'a boy that would be a boy all his life, like Sir Thomas More's son!'

say Louis, coolly and simply, but with a twinkle in the corner of his

eye, as if he say it on purpose to be provoke; and Mrs. Frost

interpose by ask where the cousin have meet, and whether they have

know each other.



'I know he by what you say yesterday,' say Mary.



'Louis le Debonnaire? ask Mrs. Frost, smile.



'no, Mary; not that name!' he exclaim.  'it be what Jem call I,

when he have nothing more cut to say--'



'Aye, because it be exactly what you look when you know you deserve a

scolding--with your shoulder pull down, and your face make up!' say

his aunt, pat he.



when Mrs. Ponsonby and Mary have leave the room to dress, Louis

exclaim, 'and that be Mrs. Ponsonby!  how ill she do look!  she

very voice have break down, though it still have the sweet sound that I

could never forget!  have she have advice?'



'Dr. Hastings see she in London,' say his father.  'he send she into

the country at once, and think that there be fair hope that complete

rest of spirit may check the disease.'



'will she stay here?' say Louis, eagerly.  'that would be like old

time, and we could make she very comfortable.  I would train those two

pony for her drives--'



'I wish she would remain here,' say his father; 'but she be bent on

become my aunt's tenant.'



'ha!  that be next good!  they could do nothing more commendable. will

they be a windfall for the House Beautiful?'



'no,' say Mrs. Frost.  'they wish to have a house of their own, in

case Mr. Ponsonby should come home, or Miss Ponsonby to stay with they.'



'the respected aunt who bring Mary up!  how long have she be at

Lima?'



'four year.'



'four year!  she have not make use of her opportunity!  Alas for the

illusion dispel!  the spanish walk and mantilla melt away; and

behold! the primitive wide-mouthed body of fourteen year since!'



Mrs. Frost laugh, but it seem to be a serious matter with Lord

Ormersfield. 'if you could appreciate sterling worth,' he say, 'you

would be ashamed to speak of your cousin with such conceited

disrespect.'



all the effect be to make Louis walk quietly out of the room; but his

shoulder and eyebrow make a secret telegraph of amazement to Mrs. Frost.



the new arrival seem to have put the Earl into a state of constant

restless anxiety, subdue and conceal with a high hand, but still

visible to one who know he so intimately as do Mrs. Ponsonby.  she

see that he watch each word and gesture, and study her look to

judge of the opinion they might create in she.  now the process be

much like weigh and balance the down of Fitzjocelyn's own

favourite thistle; the profusion, the unsubstantiality, and the

volatility be far too similar; and there be something positively

sad in the solicitous heed take of such utter heedlessness.



the reign idea be the expedition to Illershall, and the excellent

condition of the work-people under his new friend the superintendent.

forgetful that mine be a tender subject, the eager speaker become

certain that copper must exist in the neighbourhood, and what an

employment it would afford to all the country round.  'Marksedge must

be the very place, the soil promise metallic vein, the discovery

would be the utmost boon to the people.  it would lead to industry and

civilization, and counteract all the evil we have bring on they.

Mary, do you remember Marksedge, the place of exile?'



'not that I know of.'



'no; we be too young to understand the iniquity.  in the last

generation, it be not the plan to stone Naboth, but to remove he.

great people could not endure little people; so, by way of kindness,

our whole population of Ormersfield, except a few necessary retainer,

be transport bodily from betwixt the wind and our nobility, locate

on a moor beyond our confine, a generous gift to the poor-rate of

Bletchynden, away from church, away from work, away from

superintendence, away from all amenity of the poor man's life!'



this be one of the improvement to which Mr. Dynevor have prompt the

last Earl; but Louis do not know whom he be cut, as he utter

this tirade, with a glow on his cheek and eye, but with his usual soft,

modulate intonation and polished language, the distinctness and

deliberation take off all air of rattle, and render his word more

impressive.



'indeed! be there much distress at Marksedge?' say Mrs. Ponsonby.



'they have gift with our own poor at Christmas,' say Lord

Ormersfield, 'but they be a defiant, ungrateful set, always in

distress by their own fault.'



'what cause have they for gratitude?' exclaim his son.  'for be

turn out of house and home? for the three mile' walk to their daily

work!  yes, it be the fact.  the dozen family leave here, with edict

against lodger, cannot suffice for the farmer's work; and all Norris's

and Beecher's man have to walk six mile every day of their life,

besides the hard day's work.  they be still far from their parish,

they be no one's charge, they have neither church nor school, and whom

should we blame for their be lawless?'



'it use to be think a very good thing for the parish,' say Mrs.

Frost, look at her niece.  'I remember be sorry for the poor

people, but we do not see thing in the light in which Louis put it.'



'young man like to find fault with the doing of their elder,' say

Lord Ormersfield.



'nothing can make I regard it otherwise than as a wicked sin!' say

Louis.



'Nay, my dear,' mildly say Aunt Catharine, 'if it be mistaken, I be

sure it be not intentionally cruel.'



'what I call wicked be to sacrifice the welfare of dependent to our

own selfish convenience!  and you would call it cruel too, Aunt

Catharine, if you could hear the poor creature beg as a favour of Mr.

Holdsworth to be bury among their kin, and know how it have prey on

the mind of the dying that they might not lie here among their own

people.'



'change the subject, Fitzjocelyn,' say his father: 'the thing be do,

and cannot be undo.'



'the undoing be my daily thought,' say Louis.  'if I could have try

my plan of weave cordage out of cotton-grass and thistle-down, I

think I could have contrive for they.'



Mary look up, and meet his merry blue eye.  be he say it so

gravely to try whether he could take she in?  'if you could--' she

say, and he go off into a hearty laugh, and finish by say, so

that no one could guess whether it be sport or earnest, 'even take

into account the depredation of the goldfinch, it would be an

admirable speculation, and would confer immeasurable benefit on the

owner of waste land.  I mean to take out a patent when I have

succeed in the spinning.'



'a patent for a donkey,' whisper Aunt Catharine.  he respond with a

deferential bow, and the conversation be change by the Earl; but

copper be still the subject uppermost with Louis, and no soon be

dinner over than he follow the lady to the library, and begin

search every book on metal and mineral, till he have heap up a

pile of volume, whence be ring the change on oxide, pyrite, and

carbonate, and octohedron crystal--name which poor Mrs. Frost have

hear but too often.  at last it come to certainty that he have see the

very masse contain ore; he would send one to-morrow to Illershall

to be analyse, and bring his friend Dobbs down to view the spot.



'not in my time,' interpose Lord Ormersfield.  'I would not wish for a

great misfortune than the discovery of a mine on my property.'



'no wonder,' think Mrs. Ponsonby, as she recollect Wheal Salamanca

and Wheal Catharine, and Wheal Dynevor, and all the other wheal that

have wheel away all Cheveleigh and half Ormersfield, till the last

unfortunate wheal fail when the rope break, and there be no fund

to buy a new one.  no wonder Lord Ormersfield tremble when he hear

his son launch out into those easily-ascend conjectural

calculation, freely work sum in his head, so exactly like the old

Earl, his grandfather, that she could have laugh, but for sympathy

with the father, and anxiety to see how the son would take the damp so

vexatiously cast on his project.



he make the gesture that Mrs. Frost call debonnaire--read on for five

minute in silence, insist on teach his aunt the cause of the

colour in peacock ore, compare they to a pigeon's neck, and talk

of old Betty Gervas's tame pigeon; whence he proceed to memory of

the day that he and Mary have spend together, and ask which of their

old haunt she have revisit.  have she be into the nursery?



'oh yes! but I wonder you have send the old walnut press into that

lumber-room.'



'be that satire?' say Louis, start and look in her face.



'I don't know what you mean.'



'I have a well right to ask what you mean by stigmatize my

apartment as a lumber-room?'



'it be only what I see from the door,' say Mary, a little confused,

but rally and answer with spirit; 'and I must maintain that, if

you mean the room over the garden entrance, it be very like a

lumber-room.'



'ah, Mary! you have not outgrow the delusion of your sex.  be an

Englishman's house his castle while housemaid maraud over it,

ransack his possession, irritate poor peaceful dust that only

want to be let alone, sweep away cherish cobwebs?'



'oh, if you cherish cobwebs!' say Mary.



'do not the fortune of Scotland hang on a spider's thread?  do not a

cobweb save the life of Mahomet, or Ali, or a mediaeval saint--no

matter which?  be not a spider the solace of the Bastille?  have not I

lain for hour on a summer morning watch the tremulous line of the

beautiful geometrical composition?'



'More shame for you!' say Mary, with a sort of dry humorous bluntness.



'the very answer you would have make in old time,' cry Louis,

delight.  'o Mary, you bring I back the day of my youth!  you never

would see the giant who use to live in that press!'



'I remember our great fall from the top of it.'



'oh yes!' cry Louis;  'Jem Frost have set we up there bolt upright for

sentry, and I see the enemy too soon, when you would not allow that

they be there.  I be go to fire my musket at they; but you use

violence to keep I steady to my duty--pull my hair, do not you?'



'I know you scratch I, and we both roll off together!  I wonder we

be not both kill!'



'that do not trouble Jem!  he pick we up, and order we into arrest

under the bed for breach of discipline.'



'I fear Jem be a martinet,' say Mrs. Frost.



'that he be!  a general form on the model of he who, not content

with assault a demi-lune, have take une lune toute entiere.  we have

a siege of the Fort Bombadero, inaccessible, and with mortar fire

double-hand grenade.  they be dandelion clock, and there be

nettle to act the part of poison spike on the breach.'



'I remember the nettle,' say Mary, 'and Jem's drive you to gather

they; you stand with your bare leg in the nettle-bed, when he would

make I dig, and I could not come to help you!'



'on duty in the trench.  your sense of duty be exemplary.  I

remember your digging on, like a very Casablanca, all alone, in the

midst of a thunder-storm, because Jem have forget to call you in,

cry all the time with fear of the lightning!'



'you come to help I,' say Mary.  'you came rush out from the

nursery to my rescue!'



'I could not make you stir.  we be take prisoner by a sally from

the nursery.  for once in your life, you be in disgrace!'



'I quite think I ought to mind Jem,' say Mary, 'and never know

whether it be play or earnest.'



'only so could you transgress,' say Louis,--'you who never cry,

except as my amateur Mungo Malagrowther.  Poor Mary! what an amazement

it be to I to find you break your heart over the utmost penalty

of the nursery law, when to I they only afford agreeable occasion

of show that I do not care!  I must have be intolerable till you

and Mrs. Ponsonby take I in hand!'



'I be glad you own your obligation,' say Lord Ormersfield.



'I own myself as much oblige to Mary for make I wise, as to Jem for

make I foolish.'



'it be not the cause of gratitude I should have expect,' say his

father.



'alas! if he and Clara be but here!' sigh Louis.  'I entreat he

in term that might have move a pyramid from its base, but the Frost

be arctic.  an iceberg will move, but he be past all melt!'



'I respect his steadiness of purpose,' say the Earl; 'I know no young

man whom I honour more than James.'



his aunt and his son be look towards each other with glisten

eye of triumph and congratulation, and Mrs. Frost clear her voice to

say that he be make far too much of her Jemmy; a very good boy, to

be sure, but if he say so much of he, the Marys would be disappoint

to see nothing but a little fiery Welshman.









CHAPTER IV.



THISTLE-DOWN.



  lightly soar the thistle-down,

    lightly do it float--,

  lightly seed of care be sown,

    little do we note.

  watch life's thistle bud and blow,

    oh, 'tis pleasant folly;

  but when all life's path they strew,

    then come melancholy.

                  Poetry Past and Present.





Mary Ponsonby have lead a life of change and wandering that have give she

few strong local attachment.  the period she have spend at Ormersfield,

when she be from five to seven year old, have be the most joyous

part of her life, and have give she a strong feeling for the place

where she have live with her mother, and in an atmosphere of affection,

free from the shadow of that skeleton in the house, which have darken

her childhood more than she understand.



the great weakness of Mrs. Ponsonby's life have be she over-hasty

acceptance of a man, whom she do not thoroughly know, because she

delicacy have take alarm at foolish gossip about herself and her

cousin.  it be a folly that have be severely visit.  Irreligious

himself, Mr. Ponsonby dislike his wife's strictness; he resent she

affection for her own family, give way to dissipated habit, and make

her miserable both by violence and neglect.  bear late of this unhappy

marriage, little Mary be his only substantial link to his wife, and he

have never be want in tenderness to she: but many a storm have rage

over the poor child's head; and, though she do not know why the kind

old Countess have come to remove she and her mother, and 'papa' be

still a loved and honoured title, she be fully sensible of the calm

security at Ormersfield.



when Mr. Ponsonby have recall his wife on his appointment at Lima,

Mary have be leave in England for education, under the charge of his

sister in London.  Miss Ponsonby be good and kind, but of narrow

view, think all title people fashionable, and all fashionable

people reprobate, jealous of her sister-in-law's love for her own

family, and, though unable to believe her brother blameless, hold it

as an axiom that married people could not fall out without fault on

both side, and charge a large share of their unhappiness on the

house of Fitzjocelyn.  Principle have prevent she from endeavour to

weaken the little girl's affection to her mother; but it have be her

great object to train she up in habit of sober judgment, and freedom

from all the romance, poetry, and enthusiasm which she fancy have be

injurious to Mrs. Ponsonby.  the soil be of the very kind that she

would have choose.  Mary be intelligent, but with more sense than

fancy, more practical than intellectual, and prefer the homely to

the tasteful.  at school, study and accomplishment be mere task,

her recreation be find in act of kindness to her companion, and she

hope be all fix on the go out to Peru, to be useful to her

father and mother.  at seventeen she go; full of active, housewifely

habit, with a clear head, sound heart, and cramped mind, her spirit

even and cheerful, but not high nor mirthful, after ten year of

evening spend in needlework beside a dry maiden aunt.



nor be the home she find at Lima likely to foster the joyousness of

early girlhood.  Mr. Ponsonby be excessively fond of she; but his

affection to she only marked, by contrast, the gulf between he and her

mother.  there be no long any open misconduct on his part, and Mrs.

Ponsonby be almost tremblingly attentive to his wish; but he be

chill and sarcastic in his manner towards she, and her nervous attack

often betray that she have be make to suffer in private for

difference of opinion.  Health and spirit be break down; and,

though she never utter a word of complaint, the sight of her

suffering be try for a warm-hearted young girl.



Mary's refuge be hearty affection to both parent.  she would not

reason nor notice where filial tact teach she that it be good to be

ignorant; she charge all tracasserie on the peruvian republic, and

set herself simply to ameliorate each vexation as it arise, and divert

attention from it without generalize, even to herself, on the state

of the family.  the english comfort which she bring into the limenian

household be one element of peace; and her brisk, energetic habit

produce an air of ease and pleasantness that do much to make home

agreeable to her father, and remove many care which oppress she

mother.  to she, Mary be all the world-daughter, comforter, friend,

and nurse, unfaile in deed of love or word of cheer, and remove

all sense of dreariness and solitude. and Mary have find her mother

all, and more than all she remember, and admire and love she with a

deep, quiet glow of intense affection.  there be so much call for

Mary's actual exertion of various kind, that there be little

opportunity for cultivate or enlarge her mind by book, though the

scene and circumstance around she could not but take some effect.

still, at twenty-one she be so much what she have be at seventeen--so

staid, sensible, and practical, that Miss Ponsonby gladly pronounce

she not in the least spoilt.



Fain would her aunt have keep both she and her mother as her guest;

but Mrs. Ponsonby have permission to choose whatever residence well

suit she, and feel that Bryanston-square and Miss Ponsonby would be

fatal to her harass spirit.  she yearn after the home and

companion of her youth, and Miss Ponsonby could only look severe, talk

of London doctor, and take Mary aside to warn she against temptation

from fashionable people.



Mary have be look for the fashionable people ever since, and the

first sign of they she have see, be the air and figure of her cousin

Fitzjocelyn.  probably good Aunt Melicent would distrust he; and yet

his odd startling talk, and the arch look of mischief in the corner of

his mouth and eye, have so much likeness to the little Louis of old

time, that she could not look on he as a stranger nor as a formidable

be; but be always recur to the almost monitorial sense of

protection, with which she formerly use to regard he, when she share

his nursery.



her mother have cultivate her love for Ormersfield, and she be charm

by her visit to old haunt, well remember everything. she gladly

recognise the little low-browed church, the dumpy tower, and

grave-yard rise so high that it seem to intend to bury the church

itself, and permit many a view, through the lattice, of the seat,

and the Fitzjocelyn hatchment and monument.



she linger after church on Sunday afternoon with Mrs. Frost to look

at Lady Fitzjocelyn's monument.  it be in the chancel, a recumbent

figure in white marble, as if newly fall asleep, and with the lovely

feature chisel from a cast take after death have fix and ennoble

their beauty.



'it be just like Louis's profile!' say Mrs. Frost, as they come out.



'well,' say Louis, who be near than she be aware, 'I hope at least

no one will make I the occasion of a lion when I be dead.'



'it be very beautiful,' say Mary.



'may be so; but the sentiment be destroy by its having be six

month in the Royal Academy, number 16,136, and by see it down among

the excursion in the Northwold Guide.'



'Louis, my dear, you should not be satirical on this,' say Mrs. Frost.



'I never mean it,' say Louis, 'but I never could love that monument.

it use to oppress I with a sense of have a white marble mother!

and, seriously, it fill up the chancel as if it be its show-room,

accord to our family tradition that the church be dedicate to the

Fitzjocelyns.  living or dead, we have take it all to ourselves.'



'it be a very fair, respectable congregation,' say his aunt.



'exactly so.  that be my complaint.  everything belong to his

lordship be respectable--except his son.'



'take care, Louis; here be Mary look as if she would take you at

your word.'



'Pray, Mary, do they let no one who be not respectable go to church in

Peru?'



'I do not think you would change your congregation for the wretched

crowd of brown beggar,' say Mary.



'would I not?' cry Louis.  'oh! if the analogous class here in

England could but feel that the church be for them!--not drive out

and thrust aside, by our respectability.'



'marksedge to wit!' say a good-humour voice, as Mr. Holdsworth, the

young Vicar, appear at his own wicket, with a hearty greeting. 'I

never hear those word without know where you be, Fitzjocelyn.'



'I hope to be there literally some day this week,' say Louis.  'will

you walk with I?  I want to ask old Madison how his grandson go on.

I miss go to see after the boy last time I be at home.'



'I fear he have not be go on well, and have be sorry for it ever

since,' say the Vicar.  'his master tell I that he find he very

idle and saucy.'



'People of that sort never know how to speak to a lad,' say Louis. 'it

be their own rating that they ought to blame.'



'not Tom Madison, I know,' say Mr. Holdsworth, laugh.  'but I do

not come out to combat that point, but to inquire after the commission

you kindly undertake.'



'I have bring you such a set of prize!  red rubric, red margin;

and for the apparatus, I have bring a globe with all the mountain in

high relief;--yes, and an admirable physical atla, and a box of

instrument and model for apply mathematic to mechanic.  we might

give evening lecture, and interest the young farmer.'



'pray,' say the Vicar, with a sound of dismay, 'where may the bill be?

I think the limit be two pound eighteen.'



'oh!  I take all that on myself.'



'we shall see,' say Mr. Holdsworth, not gratefully.  'be Origen send

home in time for you to bring?'



'there!' cry Louis, starting, 'Origen be lie on the very chair

where I put he last January.  I will write to Jem Frost to-morrow to

send he to the binder.'



'be it of any use to ask for the music?'



'I assure you, Mr. Holdsworth, I be very sorry.  I'll write at once to

Frost.'



'then I be afraid the parish will not be reform as you promise last

Christmas,' say the Vicar, turning, with a smile, to Mrs. Frost.  'we

be to be civilize by weekly concert in the school.'



'what be you to play, Louis?' say Mrs. Frost, laugh.



'I be to imitate all the bird in the air at once,' say Louis,

begin to chirp like a melee of sparrow, turn it into the croak

of a raven, and break off suddenly with, 'I beg your pardon--I

forget it be Sunday! indeed, Mr. Holdsworth, I can say no more than

that I be a wretch not to remember.  next time I'll write it all down

in the top of my hat, with a pathetic entreaty that if my hat be

steal, the thief shall fulfil the commission, and punctually send in

the bill to the Rev. W. B. Holdsworth!'



'I shall hardly run the risk,' say Mr. Holdsworth, smile, as he

part with they, and disappear within his clip yew hedge.



'poor, ill-use Mr. Holdsworth!' cry Aunt Catharine.



'yes, it be base to forget the binding of that book,' say Louis,

gravely.  'I wish I know what amend to make.'



'you owe amend far more for make a present of a commission.  I use

to do the like, to save myself trouble, till I come down in the world,

and then I find it have be a mere air de grand seigneur.'



'I should not dare to serve you or Jem so; but I think the school be

impersonal, and could receive a favour.'



'it be no favour, unless you clearly define where the commission end

and the gift begin.  Careless benefit oblige no one.'



Fitzjocelyn receive his aunt's scolding very prettily.  his manner to

she be a become mixture of the chivalrous, the filial, and the

playful.  Mary watch it as a new and pretty picture.  all his

confidence, too, seem to be her; but who could help pour out his

heart to the ever-indulgent, sympathize Aunt Catharine?  it be

evidently the great treat to he to have she for his guest, and his

attention to she extend even to the reading a sermon to she in the

evening, to spare her eye; a measure so entirely after Aunt Melicent's

heart, that Mary decide that even she would not think her cousin so

hopelessly fashionable.



Goodnatured he be, without doubt; for as the three lady be sit

down to a sociable morning of work and read aloud, he come in to say

he be go to see after Tom Madison, and to ask if there be any

command for Northwold, with his checked shooting-jacket pocket so

puff out that his aunt begin pat and inquire. 'provision for

the House Beautiful,' he say, as forth come on the one side a long

rough brown yam.  'I see it at a shop in London,' he say, 'and think

the Faithfull sister would like to be remind of their west indian

feast.'  and, 'to make the balance true,' he have in the other pocket a

lambswool shawl of gorgeous dye, with wool to make the like, and the

receipt, in what he call 'female algebra,' the long knitting-pin

under his arm like a riding-whip.  he explain that he think it

would be a winter's work for Miss Salome to imitate it, and that she

would succour half-a-dozen family with the proceed; and Mrs.

Ponsonby be pleased to hear he speak so affectionately of the two old

maiden sister.  they be the niece of an old gentleman to whom the

central and handsome house of Dynevor Terrace have be let.  he have

an annuity which have die with he, and they inherit very little but

the furniture with which they have live on in the same house, in hope

of lodger, and pay rent to Mrs. Frost when they have any.  there be

a close friendship and perfect understanding between she and they, and,

as she truly assure they, full and constant rent could hardly have

do she as much good as their neighbourhood.  Miss Mercy be the

Sister of Charity of all Northwold; Miss Salome, who be confine to

her chair by a complaint in her knee, knit and make fancy-work, the

sale of which furnish fund for her charity.  she be highly

educate, and have a great knowledge of natural history.  Fitzjocelyn

have give their abode the name of the House Beautiful, as be

redolent of the essence of the Pilgrim's progress; and the title be so

fully accept by their friend, that the very postman would soon know

it. he linger, discourse on this topic, while Mary repacke his

parcel, and his aunt give he a message to Jane Beckett, to send the

carpenter to no. 5 before Mary's visit of inspection; but she

prophesy that he would forget; and, in fact, it be no good augury

that he leave the knitting-pin behind he on the table, and Mary be

only just in time to catch he with they at the front door.



'thank you, Mary--you be the universal memory,' he say.  'what rest

you must give my father's methodical spirit!  I see you pile up all

those blackwood of mine this morning, just as he be go to fall

upon they.'



'if you see it, I should have expect you to do it yourself,' say

Mary, in her quaint downright manner.



'never expect I to do what be expect,' answer he.



'do you do that because it be not expect?' say Mary, feel almost

as if he be beyond the pale of reason, as she see he adjust a

plant of groundsel in his cap.



'it be for the dicky-bird at my aunt's.  there's no lack of it at the

Terrace; but it be an old habit, and there always be an illusion that

Ormersfield groundsel be a superior article.'



'I suppose that be why you grow go much.'



'be you a gardener?  some day we will go to work, clear the place, and

separate the botanical from the intrusive!'



'I should like it, of all thing!'



'I'll send the horse round to the stable, and begin at once!' exclaim

Louis, all eagerness; but Mary demur, as she have promise to read to

her mother and aunt some of their old favourite, Madame de Sevigne's

letter, and his attention fly off to his restless steed, which he

want she to admire.



'my Yeomanry charger,' he say.  'we turn out five trooper.  I hope

you will be here when we go out, for go round to Northwold bring

I into a direful scrape when I go to exhibit myself to the dear old

Terrace world.  my father say it be an unworthy ambition.  what would

he have think, if he have see Jane stroke I down with the brush on

the plea of dust, but really on the principle of stroke a dog!  good

old Jane!  have you see she yet?  have she talk to you about Master

Oliver?'



the horse become so impatient, that Mary have no time for more than a

monosyllable, before Louis be oblige to mount and ride off; and he

be see no more till just before dinner, when, with a shade of french

malice, Mrs. Frost inquire about Jane and the carpenter: she have see

the cap, still decorate with groundsel, lie in the hall, and have a

shrewd suspicion, but the answer go beyond her expectations--'Ah!' he

say, 'it be all the effect of the Norman mania!'



'what have you be do?  what be the matter?' she cry, alarm.



'the matter be not with I, but with the magistrate.'



'my dear Louis, don't look so very wise and capable, or I shall think

it a very bad scrape indeed!  pray tell I what you have be about.'



'you know Sir Gilbert Brewster and Mr. Shoreland be rabid about the

little brook between their estate, of which each wish to arrogate to

himself the exclusive fishing.  their keeper watch like the austrian

guard on the Danube, in a life of perpetual assault and battery.  last

Saturday, March 3rd, 1847, one Benjamin Hodgekin, age fifteen, have the

misfortune to wash his foot in the debateable water; the belligerent

power make common cause, and hale the wretch before the Petty

Sessions.  his mother meet I.  she live in service here till she

marry a man at Marksedge, now dead.  this poor boy be an admirable

son, the main stay of the family, who must starve if he be

imprison, and she declare, with tear in her eye, that she could

not bear for a child of hers to be send to gaol, and beg I to speak

to the gentleman.'  he start up with kindle eye and vehement

manner.  'I go to the Justice-room!'



'my dear! with the groundsel?'



'and the knitting-needle!'



on rush the narration, unheede trifle.  'there be the array: Mr.

Calcott in the chair, and old Freeman, and Captain Shaw, and fat Sir

Gilbert, and all the rest, meet to condemn this wretched widow's son for

wash his foot in a gutter!'



'pray what say the indictment?' ask Mrs. Ponsonby.



'oh, that he have kill an infant trout of the value of three

farthing!  three giant keeper make oath to it, but I have his own

mother's word that he be wash his foot!'



no one could help laugh, but Fitzjocelyn be far past perceive any

such thing.  'urge what I would, they fine he.  I talk to old

Brewster!  I appeal to his generosity, if there be room for

generosity about a trout no big than a gudgeon!  I talk to Mr.

Calcott, who, I think, have more sense, but Justice Shallow would have

be more practicable!  no one take a rational view but Ramsbotham of

the factory, a very sensible man, with excellent feeling.  when it be

record in history, who will believe that seven moral, well-mean

man agree in condemn a poor lad of fifteen to a fine of five

shilling, cost three-and-sixpence--a sum he could no more pay than I

the National Debt, and with the alternative of three month'

imprisonment, brand and contaminate for life, and destroy all

self-respect?  I pay the fine, so there be one act of destruction the

less on the head of the english squirearchy.'



'Act of destruction!'



'the bad destruction be to blast a man's character because the love

of adventure be strong within him--!'



he be at this point when Lord Ormersfield enter, and after his daily

civil ceremonious inquiry of the lady whether they have walk or

drive out, he turn to his son, say, 'I meet Mr. Calcott just now,

and hear from he that he have be sorry to convict a person in whom

you take interest, a lad from Marksedge. what do you know of he?'



'I be prompt by common justice and humanity,' say Louis.  'my

protection be claim for the poor boy, as the son of an old servant

of ours.'



'indeed!  I think you must have be impose on.  Mr. Calcott speak of

the family as notorious poacher.'



'find a poor fellow on the wrong side of a hedge, and not a squire but

will swear that he be a harden ruffian!'



'usually with reason,' say the Earl.  'pray when do this person's

parent allege that they have be in my service?'



'it be his mother.  her name be Blackett, and she leave we on her

marriage with one of the Hodgekins.'



Lord Ormersfield ring the bell, and Frampton, the butler and

confidential servant, form on his own model, make his appearance.



'do you know whether a woman of the name of Blackett ever live in

service here?'



'not that I be aware of, my Lord.  I will ascertain the fact.'



in a few moment Frampton return.  'yes, my Lord, a girl name

Blackett be once engage to help in the scullery, but be discharge

for dishonesty at the end of a month.'



'do not Frampton know that that relate to I?' say Louis, sotto

voce, to his aunt.  'do he not trust that he be reduce I from a

sea anemone to a lump of quake jelly?'



so far from this consummation, Lord Fitzjocelyn look as triumphant as

Don Quixote liberate Gines de Pasamonte.  he and his father might

have sit for illustration of



          'Youth be full of pleasance,

           Age be full of care,'



as they occupy the two end of the dinner-table; the Earl conceal

anxiety and vexation, under more than ordinary punctilious politeness;

the Viscount do his share of the honour with easy, win grace

and attention, and rattle on in an under-tone of lively conversation

with Aunt Catharine.  Mary be silently amazed at she encourage he;

but perhaps she could not help spoil he the more, because there be

a storm impend.  at least, as soon as she be in the drawing-room,

she become restless and nervous, and say that she wish his father

could see that speak sternly to he never do any good; besides, it

be mere inconsiderateness, the excess of chivalrous compassion.



Mrs. Ponsonby say she think young man's ardour more apt to be

against than for the poacher.



'I must confess,' say Aunt Catherine, with all the reluctance of a

high-spirited Dynevor,--'I must confess that Louis be no sportsman! he

be eager about it once, till he have become a good shot; and then it

lose all z for he, and he prefer his own vagary.  he never take

a gun unless James drive he out; and, oddly enough, his father be

quite vex at his indifference, as if it be not manly. if his father

would only understand he!'



the speciman of that day have almost make Mrs. Ponsonby fear that there

be nothing to understand, and that only dear Aunt Kitty's affection

could perceive anything but amiable folly, and it be not much well

when the young gentleman reappear, look very debonnaire, and,

sit down beside Mrs. Frost, say, in a voice mean for she

alone--'Henry IV; Part II., the insult to Chief Justice Gascoigne.  my

father will presently enter and address you:



                         'o that it could be prove

      that some night-trip fairy have exchange

      in cradle-cloth our child as they lay,--

      Call'd yours Fitzjocelyn--mine, Frost Dynevor!'





'for shame, Louis!  I shall have to call you Fitzjocelyn!  you be

behave very ill.'



'insult the english constitution in the person of seven squire.'



'don't, my dear!  it be the very thing to vex your father that you

should have put yourself in such a position.'



'beard the Northwold bench with a groundsel plume and a

knitting-needle:



     'with a needle for a sword, and a thimble for a hat,

      Wilt thou fight a traverse with the Castle cat?'





the proper champion in such a cause, since 'what cat's averse to fish?''



'no, Louis dear,' say his aunt, struggle like a girl to keep she

countenance; 'this be no time for nonsense.  one would think you have no

feeling for your father.'



'my dear aunt, I cann't go to gaol like Prince Hal.  I do assure you, I

do not assault the bench with the knitting-pin.  what be I to do?'



'not set at nought your father's displeasure.'



'I cann't help it,' say he, almost sadly, though half smile.  'what

would become of I if I try to support the full weight? interfere

with institution, ruin reputation, blast bulwark, patronize

poacher, vituperate venerated--'



'quite true,' cry Aunt Catherine, with spirit.  'you know you have no

business there, lecture a set of man old enough to be your

grandfather, and talk they all to death, no doubt.'



'well, Aunt Kitty, if oppression madden the wise, what must it do to

the foolish?'



'if you only allow that it be foolish--'



'no; I have rather know whether it be wrong.  I believe I be too

eager, and not respectful enough to the old squire: and, on reflection,

it might have be a matter of obedience to my father, not to interfere

with the prejudice of true-bear english magistrate.  yes, I be

wrong: I would have own it soon, but for the shell he fire over my

head.  and for the rest, I don't know how to repent of having protest

against tyranny.'



there be something redeem in the conclusion, and it be a comfort,

for it be impossible to retain anger with one so gently,

good-humouredly polite and attentive.



a practical answer to the champion be not long in come.  he

volunteer the next day to walk to Northwold with Mrs. Frost and Mary,

who want to spend the morning in select a house in Dynevor

Terrace, and to be fetch home by-and-by, when Mrs. Ponsonby take she

air.  two mile seem nothing to Aunt Catharine, who accept she

nephew's arm for love, and not for need, as he discourse of all the

animal that might be naturalize in England, obtain from Mary an

account of the llama of the Andes, and ride off upon a scheme of an

importation to make the fortune of Marksedge by a manufacture of Alpaca

umbrella.



meantime, he must show the beautiful american duck which he hope to

naturalize on the pond near the keeper's lodge: but, whistle and call

as he would, nothing show itself but scream Canada geese.  he run

round, pull out a boat half full of water, and, with a foot on each

side, paddle across to a bushy island in the centre,--but in vain.

the keeper's wife, who have the charge over they, come out: 'oh, my

Lord, I be so sorry!  they pretty duck!'



'ha! the fox?'



'I wish it be, my Lord; but it be they poacher out at Marksedge that

be so daring, they would come anywhere--and you see the duck would

roost up in the tree, and you say I be not to shut 'em up at night.

my master be out up by Beech hollow; I heerd a gun, and look out; I

see a man and a boy--I'd take my oath it be young Hodgekin.  they do

say Nanny Hodgekin, she as be one of the Blacketts, whose husband be

transport, take in two duck next morning to Northwold.  Warren

couldn't make nothing of it; but if ever he meet that Hodgekin again,

he say he _shall_ catch it!'



'well, Mrs. Warren, it cann't be help--thank you for the good care you

take of the poor duck,' say Louis, kindly; and as he walk on

through the gate, he give a long sigh, and say, 'my dainty duck! so

there's an end of they, and all their tameness!'  but the smile could

not but return.  'it be lucky the case do not come before the bench!

but really that woman deserve a medal for coolness!'



'I suppose,' say Mary, 'she could have pay the fine with the price of

the duck.'



'ah! the beauty!  I wish Mr. Hodgekin have fall on the pheasant

instead!  however, I be thankful he and Warren do not come to a

collision about they.  I be always expect that, having make those

Marksedge people thief, murder will be the next consequence.'



a few second suffice to bring the ludicrous back.  'how pat it come!

Mary, do you prime Mrs. Warren, or do Frampton?'



'I believe you have rather laugh at yourself than at any one else,'

exclaim his aunt, who feel baffled at having throw away her

compassion.



'of course.  one know how much can be bear.  why, Mary, have that set

you studying,--do you dissent?'



'I be think whether it be the good thing to be always ready to

laugh at oneself,' say Mary.  'do it always help in mending?'



''don't care' come to a bad end,' say Louis; 'but on the other hand,

care kill a cat--so there be two side to the question.'



while Mary be feel disappointed at his light tone, he change it to

one that be almost mournful.  'the bad of it be, that 'don't care'

be my refuge.  whatever I do care about be always thwart by Frampton

or somebody, and be for ever throw over, I have only to fall as

softly as I can.'



'you know, my dear,' say Mrs. Frost, 'that your father have no command

of mean to gratify you.'



'there be mean enough for ourselves,' say Louis; 'that be the

needful duty.  what merely personal indulgence do I ever ask for that

be refuse I?'



'if that be all you have to complain of, I cann't pity you,' say Mary.



'listen, Mary.  let I wish for a horse, there it be!  let I wish for

a paint window, we cann't afford it, though, after all, it would not

eat; but horse be an adjunct of state and propriety.  so again, the

parish feast last 18th of January, because I come of age, and it be

_proper_; while if I ask that our people may be release from work on

Good Friday or Ascension Day, it be think outrageous.'



'if I remember right, my dear,' interpose his aunt, 'you want no

work to be do on any saint's-day.  be there not a scheme that Mr.

Holdsworth call the cricket cure!'



'that may yet be.  no one know the good a few free day would do the

poor.  but I develop my plan too rapidly!  I'll try again for their

church-go on Good Friday.'



'I think you ought to succeed there.'



'I know how it will be.  my father will ring, propound the matter to

Frampton; the answer will be, 'quite impracticable, my Lord,' and there

will be an end of it.'



'perhaps not.  at least it will have be consider,' say Mary.



'true,' say Louis; 'but you little know what it be to have a Frampton!

if he be a fair sample of prime minister, no wonder prince of Wales

go into the opposition!'



'I think Frampton be a very valuable superior servant.'



'exactly so.  that be the bad of it.  he be supreme authority, and

well deserve it.  when la Grande Mademoiselle stand before the gate

of Orleans call to the sentinel to open they, he never stir a

step, but reply merely with profound bow.  that be my case.  I make

a request, be answer, 'yes, my Lord;' find no result, repeat the

process, and at the fourth time be silence with, 'quite impracticable

my Lord.''



'surely Frampton be respectful?'



'it be his very essence.  he be a thorough aristocrat, respect

himself, and therefore respect all other as they deserve.  he

respect a Viscount Fitzjocelyn as an appendage nearly as needful as

the wyvern on each side of the shield; but as to the individual

hold that office, he regard he much as he would one of the wyvern

with a fool's-cap on.'



and with those word, Fitzjocelyn have spring into the hedge to gather

the early willow-catkin, and come down dilate on their silvery,

downy bud and golden blossom, and on the pleasure they would give

Miss Faithfull, till Mary, who have be begin to compassionate he,

be almost vex to think her pity waste on grievance of mere random

talk.



warm and kindly be his greeting of his aunt's good old servant, Jane

Beckett, whom Mary be well pleased to meet as one of the kind friend

of her childhood.  the refinement that be like an atmosphere around

Mrs. Frost, seem to have extend even to her servant; for Jane,

though she could hardly read, and carry her account in her head, have

manner of a gentle warmth and propriety that have a grace of their own,

even in her racy, bad grammar; and there be no withstand the merry

smile that twitch up one side of her mouth, while her eye twinkle

in the varied mood prompt by an inexhaustible fund of good temper,

sympathy, and affection, but the fulness of her love be for the

distant 'Master Oliver,' whose young nursery-maid she have be.  her

eye wink between tear and smile when she hear that Miss Mary have

see he but five month ago, and she inquire after he, glory in

his prosperity, and talk of his come home, with far less reserve

than his mother have do.



Mary be strike, also, with the pretty, modest look of the little

underling, and remark on they as they proceed to the inspection of

the next house.



'yes,' say Louis, 'Charlotte be something between a wood sorrel and a

five-plume moth.  Tom Madison, as usual, show exquisite taste. she be

a perfect Lady of Eschalott.'



'now, Louis!' say his aunt, stand still, and really look

annoyed, 'you know I cannot encourage any such thing.  poor little

Charlotte be an orphan, and I be all the more responsible for she.'



'there's a chivalry in poor Tom--'



'nonsense!' say his aunt, as if resolve not to hear he out, because

afraid of herself.  'don't say any more about it.  I wish I have never

allow of his bring your message.'



'who set he down in the kitchen to drink a cup of beer?' say Louis,

mischievously.



'ah! well! one comfort be, that girl never care for boy of the same

age,' reply Aunt Catharine, as she turn the key, and admit they

into no. 7; when Fitzjocelyn confuse Mary's judgment with his

recommendation, till Aunt Catharine point out the break shutter,

and ask if he would not have be well employ in fetch the

carpenter, than in hector the magistrate, he promise to make up

for it, fetch a piece of wood and James's tool, and be quickly at

work, his Aunt only warn he, that if he lose Jem's tool she would

not say it be her fault.



by the time Mary's imagination have portray what paper, paint,

furniture, and habitation might make the house, and have discern how

to arrange a pretty little study in case of her father's return; he have

complete the repair in a workmanlike manner, and put two finger

to his cap, ask, 'any other little job for I, ma'am?'



of course, he forget the tool, till shame by Mary's turn back for

they, and after a merry luncheon, serve up in haste by Jane, they

betook themselves to Number 8, where the Miss Faithfulls be seat at

a dessert of hard biscuit and water, of neither of which they ever

partook: they only adhere to the hereditary institution of sit for

twenty minute after dinner with their red and purple doiley before

they.



Mary seem to herself carry back fourteen year, and to understand

why her childish fancy have always believe Christiana's Mercy a living

character, when she find herself in the calm, happy little household.

the chief change be that she must now bend down, instead of reach

up, to receive the kind embrace.  even the garment seem unchanged,

the dark merino gown, black silk apron, white cap-ribbon, the soft

little indian shawl wear by the eld sister, the ribbon bow by the

young, distinction that use to puzzle her infant speculation, not

aware that the coloured bow be Miss Mercy's ensign of youth, and that

its absence would have make Miss Salome feel aged indeed.  the two

sister be much alike--but the young be the more spare, shrivel

up into a cheery nonpareil, her bloom change into something quite as

fresh and healthful, and her blithe trip step always active, except

when her finger be nimbly take their turn.  Miss Salome have become

more plump, her cheek be smoother and pale, her eye more placid, her

air that of a patient invalid, and her countenance more intellectual

than her sister's. she say less about their extreme enjoyment of the

yam, and while Mrs. Frost and Mary hold counsel with Miss Mercy on

servant and furniture, there be a talk on entomology go on between

she and Fitzjocelyn.



it be very pretty to see he with the old lady, so gently attentive,

without patronize, and they, though evidently dote on he, laugh

at he, and treat he like a spoilt child.   he insist on Mary's

see their ordinary sitting room, which nature have intend for a

housekeeper's room, but which ladylike inhabitant have render what he

call the very 'kernel of the House Beautiful.' there be the stand

of flower in the window; the bullfinch scold in his cage, the rare

old shell and china on the old-fashioned cabinet that Mary so well

remember; and the silk patchwork sofa-cover, the old piano, and Miss

Faithfull's arm chair by the fire, her little table with her beautiful

knitting, and often a flower or insect that she be copy; for she

still draw nicely; and she smile and consent, as Louis pull out

her portfolio, life-long collection of portrait of bird, flower,

or insect. her knitting find a sale at the workshop, where the object

be well know, and the proceed be diffuse by her sister, and

whether she deserve her name might be guess by the basket of poor

people's store beside her chair.



Miss Mercy be well know in every dusky Northwold lane or alley, where

she always find or make a welcome for herself.  the kindly counsel and

ready hand be more potent than far large mean without they.



such neighbour be in themselves a host, and Mary and her mother both

feel as if they have attain a region of unwonted tranquillity and

repose, when they have agree to rent no. 5, Dynevor Terrace, from the

ensue Lady-day, and to take possession when carpenter and

upholsterer should have work their will.



Louis be half-way home when he exclaim, 'there! I have miss Tom

Madison a second time.  when shall I ever remember he at the right

time?'



Little do Louis guess the effect his neglect be take!  Charlotte

Arnold might have tell, for Mrs. Martha have bring in story of his

unsteadiness and idle habit that confirm she in her obedience to

Jane.  she never go out alone in his leisure hour; never look for

he in return from church--alas! that be not the place to look for

he now.  and yet she could not believe he such a very bad boy as she

be tell he have become.









CHAPTER V.



the two minister.



  'the creature's neither one nor t'other.

  I catch the animal last night,

  and view he o'er by candle-light;

  I mark he well, 'twa black as jet.

  you stare, but sir, I've get he yet,

  and can produce he.'  'pray, sir, do;

  I'll lay my life the thing be blue.'

  'and I'll be swear, that when you've see

  the reptile, you'll pronounce he green.'

  'well, then, at once to end the doubt,'

  reply the man, 'I'll turn he out;

  and when before your eye I've set he,

  if you don't find he black, I'll eat he.'

  he say--then, full before their sight

  produce the beast, and lo! 'twa white!

                                     MERRICK.





Mrs. Ponsonby have see in the tropic bird of brilliant hue, that

even, whilst the gazer pronounce they all one beam tint of gorgeous

purple, would give one flutter, and in another light would flash with

golden green or fiery scarlet.  no less startling and unexpected be

the aspect of Lord Fitzjocelyn, 'every thing by start, and nothing

long;' sometimes absorb in study, sometimes equally ardent over a

childish game; wild about philanthropic plan, and apparently

forget they the instant a cold word have fall on they; attempt

everything, finish nothing; dip into every kind of book, and

forsake it after a cursory glance; ever busy, yet ever idle; full of

desultory knowledge, range through all kind of reading and natural

history, and still more full of talk.  this last be perhaps his most

decide gift.  to any one, of whatever degree, he would talk, he could

hardly have be silent ten minute with any human being, except

Frampton or his father, and whether deep reflection or arrant nonsense

come out of his mouth, seem an even chance, though both alike be in

the same soft low voice, and with the same air of quaint pensive

simplicity.  he be exceedingly provoking, and yet there be no be

provoke with he!



he be so sincere, affectionate, and obliging, that not to love he be

impossible, yet that love only make his fault more annoying, and Mrs.

Ponsonby could well understand his father's perpetual restless anxiety,

for his foible be exactly of the sort most likely to tease such a

man as the Earl, and the most positively unsatisfactory part of his

character be the insouciance that he display when his trifling or

his wild project have give umbrage.  yet, even here, she could not but

feel a hope, such as it be, that the carelessness might be the effect

of want of sympathy and visible affection from his father, whose very

anxiety make he the more unbending; and that, what a bad temper

might have resent, render a good one gaily reckless and unheede.



she often wonder whether she should try to give a hint--but Lord

Ormersfield seem to dread lead to the subject, although on all

else that interest he he come to she as in old time, and seem

greatly refresh and soften by her companionship.



an old friend and former fellow-minister have propose spend a night

at Ormersfield.  he be the person whom the Earl most highly esteemed,

and, in his own dignified way, he be solicitous that the household

should be in more than usually perfect order, hold a long conference

with the man of whom he be sure, Frampton.  would that he could have

be equally sure of his son!  he look at he almost wistfully

several time during breakfast, and at last, as they rise, give an

exhortation 'that he would be punctual to dinner at half-past seven,

which would give he ample time, and he hope he would be--' he pause

for a word, and his son supply it.  'on my good behaviour, I

understand.'  with that he walk off, leave Lord Ormersfield telling

Mrs. Ponsonby that it be the first introduction, as he have 'for

various reason' think it undesirable to bring Fitzjocelyn early to

London, and betray his own anxiety as to the impression he might

produce on Sir Miles Oakstead.  his own perplexity and despondency

show themselves in his desire to view his son with the eye of

other, and he also think the tenor of Fitzjocelyn's future life

might be colour by his friend's opinion.



Evening bring the guest.  Mrs. Ponsonby be not well enough to appear

at dinner, but Mary and Mrs. Frost, please to see an historical

character, be in the drawing-room, enjoy Sir Miles's agreeable

conversation, until they catch certain misgiving reflect in each

other's look, as time wear on and nothing have be see or hear of

Louis.  the half-hour strike; the Earl wait five minute, then ring

the bell.  'be Lord Fitzjocelyn come in?'



'no, my Lord.'



'bring in the dinner.'



Mary long to fly in search of he, and spare further vexation.  she

have assume all an eld sister's feeling, and suffer for he as she

use to do, when he be in disgrace and would not heed it.  she hear

no more of the conversation, and be insensible to the honour of go

in to dinner with the late Secretary of State, as she see the empty

place at the table.



the soup be over, when she be aware of a step in the hall, and beside

she stand a grey figure, bespatter with mud, shade his eye with

his hand, as if dazzle by the light.  'I beg your pardon,' be the

word, 'but I be oblige to go to Northwold.  I have shoot a

rise-coloured pastor!'



'shot he!' cry Mary.  'be he much hurt?'



'kill!  I take he to Miss Faithfull, to be sketch before he be

stuffed--'



a clear view of the company, a wave of the hand from the Earl, and

the young gentleman be go.  next he open the library door, say,

'here's my pretty behaviour!'



'Louis! what be the matter?' cry Mrs. Ponsonby.



'I entirely forget the right honourable, and march into the

dining-room to tell Aunt Catharine that I have kill a rose-colour

pastor.'



'kill what?'



'a bird, hardly ever see in England.  I spy he in the fir-wood,

go to Warren for a gun, bring he down, and walk on to the House

Beautiful, where Miss Faithfull be enchant.  she will copy he, and

send he to the bird-stuffer.  I look in to give direction, and old

Jenyns be amazed; he never know one shot here before, so early in the

year too.  he say we must send the account to the Ornithological--'



'do you know how wet you be?  exclaim Mrs. Ponsonby, see rivulet

drop from his coat.



'I see.  it rain all the way home, and be so dark, I could not see

the footpath; and when I come in, my eye be blind by the light,

and my head so full of the pastor, that the other minister never

occur to I, and remain under the impression that I have confess

a sacrilegious murder.'



'you really be incorrigible!' cry Mrs. Ponsonby.  'why be you not

dress for dinner?'



'because you be go to give I a cup of your tea.'



'certainly not.  I shall begin to think you purposely mortify your

father, when you know he want you to be reasonable.'



'the low specie never show off well to stranger,' say Fitzjocelyn,

coolly; but, as he light his candle, he add, with more candour, 'I

beg your pardon--indeed I do not do this on purpose, but don't say

anything about appearance--there's something in I that be sure to

revolt.'



so noiselessly that the moment be unknown, the vacant chair be fill

by a gentleman irreproachably attire, his face glow with exercise,

or with what make he very debonnaire and really silent, dine rapidly

and unobtrusively, and never raise his eye even to his aunt,

probably intend thus to remain all the evening; but presently Sir

Miles turn to he and say, 'pray satisfy my curiosity.  who be the

rose-coloured pastor?'



Louis raise his eye, and meet a pleasing, sensible face, out

beam his arch look of suppress fun as he answer, 'he be not at

all clerical.  he be otherwise call the rose-colour ouzel or

starle.'



'whence be that other startling name?'



'from his attend flock of sheep, on the same mission as jackdaws

fulfil here--which likewise have an ecclesiastical reputation--



     'a great frequenter of the church.''



fear alike nonsense and ornithology, Lord Ormersfield change the

subject, and Louis subside, but when the gentleman come into the

drawing-room, Mrs. Ponsonby be surprised to see he take a fair

share, and no more, of the conversation.  some information have be

want about the term of labour in the mining district, and Louis's

visit to Illershall enable he to throw light on the subject, with

much clearness and accuracy.  Sir Miles have more literature than Lord

Ormersfield, and be more used to young man; and he begin to draw

Fitzjocelyn out, with complete success.  Louis fully respond to the

touch, and without a notion that he be show himself to the good

advantage, he yield to the pleasure, and for once prove of what he

be capable--reveal unawares an unusual amount of intelligence and

observation, and great power of expression.  not even his aunt have ever

see he appear so much like a superior man, and the only alloy be his

father's, ill-repress dread lest he should fall on dangerous ground,

and commit himself either to his wildly philanthropical or

extravagantly monarchical view, whichever might happen to be in the

ascendant.  however, such shoal be not approach, nor do Louis

ever plunge out of his depth.  the whole of his manner and demeanour

be proof that, in his case, much talk spring from exuberance of

idea, not from self-conceit.



he be equally good in the morning: he have rise early to hunt up some

information which Sir Miles want, and the clearness and readiness

with which he have find it be wonderful.  the guest be delighted

with he; give he a warm invitation to Oakstead, and on be leave

alone with Mrs. Ponsonby, whom he have formerly know, express his

admiration of his friend's son--as a fine, promise young man, of

great ability and originality, and, what be still more remarkable, of

most simple, natural manner, perfectly free from conceit.  he seem

the more amazed, when he find, what he would hardly believe, that

Fitzjocelyn be twenty-one, and have nearly finish his university

education.



the liking be mutual.  no soon have Sir Miles depart, than Louis

come to the library in a rapture, declare that here be the

refreshing sight of a man unspoilt by political life, which usually eat

out the heart of people.



Mary smile at this, and tell he that he be talk 'like an old

statesman weary of the world.'



'one may be weary of the world beforehand as well as after,' say he.



'that do not seem worth while,' say Mary.



'no,' he say, 'but one's own immediate look-out may not be flattering,

whatever the next turn may bring;' and he take up the newspaper, and

begin to turn it over.  ''as butler--as single-handed man--as clerk and

accountant.'  there, those be the lucky man, with downright work, and

some one to work for.  or, just listen to this!' and he plunge into a

story of some heroic conduct during a shipwreck.  while he be read

it aloud, with kindle eye and enthusiastic interest, his father

open the door.  'Louis,' he say, 'if you be do nothing, I should

be oblige if you would make two copy of this letter.'



Louis glance at the end of what he be read, lay the paper down,

and open a blotting-book.



'you have well come into the study, or you will not write correctly.'



'I can write, whatever go on.'



'I particularly wish this to be legible and accurate.  you have begin

too low down.'



Louis take another sheet.



'that pen be not fit to write with.'



'the pen be delusion,' say Louis, try they round, in an easy,

idle way: 'I never could mend a quill!  how be this steel one? refuse

to recognise the purpose of his existence.  Aunt Catherine, do you

still forbid steel pen in your school?  if so, it must be the solitary

instance.  how geese must cackle blessing on the inventor! he should

have a testimonial--a silver inkstand represent the goose that lay

the golden eggs,--and all writing-master should subscribe.  ha! where

do this pen come from?  Mary, be you the bounteous mender!  a

thousand thank.'



if Louis fret his father by loitering and nonsense, his father be

no less try by stand over he with advice and criticism which

would have drive most youth beyond patience, but which he bear with

constant good-humour, till his father return to the study, when he

exclaim, 'now, Mary, if you like to finish the wreck, it will not

interrupt I.  this be mere machine-work.'



'thank you,' say Mary; 'I should like it well afterwards.  do you

think I might do one copy for you?  or would it not suit Lord

Ormersfield?'



Louis make polite demur, but she overrule they and begin.



he stretch himself, take up his time, and skim the remain

incident of the shipwreck, till he be shame by see Mary half-way

down the first page, when he resume his pen, overtake she, and then

relapse into talk, till Mrs. Frost fairly leave the room, to silence

he.



as the two copy be complete, Lord Ormersfield return; and Mary,

with many apology, present her copy, and receive most gracious

thank and compliment on her firm, clear writing, a vexation to she

rather than otherwise, since 'Fitzjocelyn' be call to account for

dubious scrawl, error, and erasure.



he meekly take another sheet, console himself, however, by say, 'I

warn you that pain will only make it Miss Fanny.'



'what do you mean?'



as if glad to be instigate, he reply, 'do you never hear of my

signature be mistake by an ingenious person, who address his

answer to 'Miss Fanny Jocelyn?  why, Fanny have be one of Jem's

regular name for I ever since!  I have the envelope somewhere as a

curiosity.  I'll show it to you, Mary.'



'you seem to be proud of it!' exclaim his father, nearly out of

patience.  'pray tell I whether you intend to copy this creditably or

not.'



'I will endeavour, but the Fates must decide.  I can scrawl, or, with

pain, I can imitate Miss Fanny; but the other alternative only come

in happy moment.'



'do you mean that you cannot write well if you choose?'



'it be like other art--an inspiration.  Dogberry be deep when he say

it come by nature.'



'then make no more attempt.  no.  that schoolgirl's niggle be bad

than the first.'



'Fanny, as I tell you,' say Louis, look vacantly up in resign

despair, yet not without the lurk expression of amusement, 'I will

try again.'



'no, I thank you.  I will have no more time waste.'



Louis passively move to the window, where he exclaim that he see

Aunt Catharine sun herself in the garden, and must go and help she.



'do you ever see anything like that?' cry Lord Ormersfield,

thoroughly move to displeasure.



'there be at least good-humour,' say Mrs. Ponsonby.  'pardon I,

there be almost as much to try his temper as your.'



'he be insensible!'



'I think not.  a word from Aunt Catharine rule he.'



'though you counsel it, Mary, I doubt whether her training have

answer.  Henry Frost should have be a warning.'



Mary find herself blunder in her new copy, and retreat with it to

the study, while her mother make answer: 'I do not repent of my advice.

the affection between he and Aunt Catherine be the great blessing

to he.'



'poor boy!' say his father, forget his letter as he stood

ponder.  Mrs. Ponsonby seize the moment for report Sir Miles's

opinion, but the Earl do not betray his gratification.  'first sight!'

he say.  'last night and this afternoon he be as unlike as these be,'

and he place before her Louis's unlucky copy, together with a letter

write in a bold, manly hand.  'three different man might have write

these!  and he pretend he cannot write like this, if he please!'



'I have no doubt it be to a certain extent true.  yes, absolutely true.

you do not conceive the influence that mood have on some character

before they have learn to master themselves.  I do not mean temper,

but the mere frame of spirit.  even sense of restraint will often take

away the actual power from a child, or where there be not a strong

will.'



'you be right!' say he, become rigid as if with pain.  'he be a

child!  you have not yet tell I what you think of he.  you need not

hesitate.  no one see the likeness more plainly than I do.'



'it be strong externally,' she say; 'but I think it be more external

than real, more temperament than character.'



'you be too metaphysical for I, Mary;' and he would fain have smile.



'I want you to be hopeful.  half the object would be attain if you

be, and he really deserve that you should.'



'he will not let I.  if I hope at one moment, I be disappoint the

next.'



'and how?  by nothing bad than boyishness.  you confirm what my aunt

tell I, that there have never be a serious complaint of he.'



'never.  his conduct have always be blameless; but every tutor have

say the same--that he have no application, and allow himself to be

surpass by any one of moderate energy!'



'blameless conduct!  how many father would give world to be able to

give such a character of a son!'



'there be fault that be the very indication of a manly spirit,'

begin the Earl, impatiently.  'not that I mean that I wish--he have

never give I any trouble--but just look at James Frost, and you would

see what I mean!  there's energy in he--fire--independence; you feel

there be substance in he, and like he the well for have a will

and way of his own.'



'so, I think, have Louis; but it be so often thwart, that it sink

away under the sense of duty and submission.'



'if there be any consistency or reason in his fancy, they would not

give way so easily; but it be all talk, all extravagant notion--here

one day, go the next.  not a spark of ambition!'



'ambition be not so safe a spark that we should wish to see it light.'



'a man must wish to see his son hold his proper station, and aim high!

no one can be satisfied to see he a trifl.'



'I have be try to find out why he trifle.  as far as I can see,

he have no ambition, and I do not think his turn will be for a life like

your.  his bent be towards what be to do good to other.  he would

make an admirable country gentleman.'



'a mere farmer, idle away his time in his field.'



'no; do infinite good by example and influence, and come forward

whenever duty require it.  depend upon it, the benefit to other be

the impulse which can work on Louis, not personal ambition.  Birth have

already give he more than he value.'



'you may be right,' say Lord Ormersfield, 'but it be hard to see so

many advantage throw away, and what sometimes seem like so much

ability waste.  but who can tell? he be never the same for an hour

together.'



'may it not be for want of a sphere of wholesome action?'



'he be not fit for it, Mary.  you know I resolve that the whole

burthen of our loss should fall on I; I make it my object that he

should not suffer, and should freely have whatever I have at the same

age.  everything be clear at last.  I could give he the same income

as I start in life with; but he be so reckless of money, that I

cannot feel justified in put it into his hand.  say what I will,

not a vacation occur but he come to tell I of some paltry debt of

ten or fifteen pound.'



'he come to tell you!  Nay, never say he have no resolution!  such

debt as those, what be they compare with other young man's, of which

they do not tell their father?'



'if he be like other youth, I should know how to deal with he. but

you agree with I, he be not fit to have a large sum in his hand.'



'perhaps not; he be too impulsive and inexperienced.  if you be to

ask I how to make it conduce to his happiness, I should say, lie out

more on the estate, so as to employ more man, and make improvement in

which he would take interest.'



'I cannot make he care for the estate.  last winter, when he come of

age, I try to explain the state of affair; but he be utterly

indifferent--would not trouble himself to understand the paper he be

to sign, and make I quite ashamed of such an exhibition before

Richardson.'



'I wish I could defend he!  and yet--you will think I unreasonable,

but I do believe that if he have think the welfare of other be

concern, he would have attend more.'



'Umph!'



'I be not sure that it be not his good quality that make he so hard

to deal with.  the want of selfishness and vanity seem to take away two

common spring of action, but I do believe that patience will bring out

something much high when you have find the way to reach it.'



'that I certainly have not, if it be there!'



'to cultivate his sympathy with you,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, hesitating,

and not venture to look into his face.



'Enough, Mary,' he say, hastily.  you say the like to I once before.'



'but,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, firmly, '_here_ there be a foundation to

work on.  there be affection that only need to be draw out to make

you happy, and he--not, perhaps, what you now wish, but well than

you wish.'



his face have become hard as he answer, 'thank you, Mary; you have

always mean the good.  you have always be kind to I, and to all

belong to I.'



her heart ache for the father and son, understand each other so

little, and pain each other so much, and she fear that the Earl's

mind have be too much cramp, and his feeling too much chill, for

such soften on his part as could alone, as it seem, prevent Louis

from be estranged, and leave to his naturally fickle and indolent

disposition.



Mary have in the mean time complete her copy, and leave they on the

Earl's table; and wish neither to be thank nor contrast with

Louis, she put on her bonnet, to go in search of Aunt Catharine.  not

find she in the garden, she decide on visit old Gervas and his

wife, who have gladly catch at her offer of reading to they.  the visit

over, she return by the favourite path above Ferny dell, gather

primrose, and meditate how to stir up Louis to finish off his rocky

step, and make one piece of work complete.  she pause at the summit

of they, and be much inclined to descend and examine what be want,

when she start at hear a rustling beneath, then a low moan and an

attempt at a call.  the bush and a project rock cut off her view;

but, in some trepidation, she call out, 'be any one there?'  Little

do she expect the answer--



'it be I--Fitzjocelyn.  Come!--I have have a fall.'



'I'm come--be you hurt?' she cry, as with shake limb she

prepare to begin the descent.



'not that way,' he call; 'it give way--go to the left.'



she be almost disobey; but, recall herself to thought, she

hurry along the top till the bank become practicable, and tear she

way through brake and brier, till she could return along the side of

the stream.



Horror-strike, she perceive that a heavy stone have give way and

roll down, bear Louis with it, to the bottom, where he lay,

ghastly and helpless.  she call to he; and he try to raise

himself, but sink back.  'Mary! be it you?  I think I should have

die here,' he say; as she kneel by he, exclaim, 'oh, Louis!

Louis! what a dreadful fall!'



'it be my fault,' he eagerly interrupt.  'I be glad it have happen

to no one else.'



'and you be terribly hurt! I must go for help! but what can I do for

you?  would you like some water?



'Water!  oh! I have hear it all this time gurgle there!'



she fill his cap, and bathe his face, apparently to his great

relief, and she venture to ask if he have be long there.



'very long!' he say.  'I must have faint after I get the stone off

my foot, so I miss Gervas go by.  I think no one else would come

near.  thank God!'



Mary almost grow sick as she see how dreadfully his left ankle have be

crush by a heavy stone; and her very turn towards it make he

shudder, and say, 'don't touch I!  I be shatter all over.'



'I be afraid I should only hurt you,' she say, with difficulty

control herself.  'I have well fetch some one.'



he do not know how to be leave again; but the damp chilliness of his

hand make she the more anxious to procure assistance, and, after

spread her shawl over he, she make the utmost speed out of the

thicket.  as she emerge, she see Lord Ormersfield ride with his

groom, and her scream and sign arrest he; but, by the time they meet,

she could utter nothing but 'Louis!'



'another accident!' be the almost impatient answer.



'he be dreadfully hurt!' she say, sob and breathless.  'his foot

be crush!  he have be there this hour!'



the alarm be indeed give.  the Earl seem about to rush away without

know whither; and she have absolutely to withhold he, while,

summon her faculty, she give direction to Poynings. then she let

he draw she on, too fast for speak, until they reach the spot

where Louis lay, so spend with pain and cold, that he barely open his

eye at their voice, make no distinct answer as to his hurt, and

shrank and moan when his father would have raise he.



Mary contrive to place his head on her lap, bathe his forehead and

chafe his hand, while Lord Ormersfield stand watch he with look

of misery, or pace about, anxiously look for the servant.



they come at last, all too soon for poor Louis, who suffer terribly

in the transport, and give few token of consciousness, except a cry

now and then extort by a rougher movement.



none of the household, scarcely even Mrs. Frost, seem at first to be

able to believe that Lord Fitzjocelyn could really have hurt himself

seriously.  'again!' be the first word of every one, for his many

slight accident be treat like cry 'Wolf;' but Frampton himself

look perfectly pale and shock when he perceive how the matter

really stand; and neither he nor Lord Ormersfield be half so helpful

as Mrs. Frost.  the shock only call out her energy in behalf of she

darling, and, tender as her nature be, she shrink from nothing that

could soothe and alleviate his suffering; and it do infinitely comfort

he, as he hold her hand and look with affection into her face, even

in the extremity of pain.



Fain would other have be the same support; but his father, though

not leave he, be completely unnerved, and unable to do anything;

and Mrs. Ponsonby be suffer under one of the attack that be

bring on by any sudden agitation.  Mary, though giddy and throb

in every pulse, be force to put a resolute check on herself--brace

her limb, steady her voice, and keep her face compose, while every

faculty be absorb in listen for sound from her cousin's room,

and her heart be quiver with an anguish of prayer and suspense.

could she but hide her burn cheek for one moment, let out one of

the sob that seem to be rend her breast, throw herself on her

knee and burst into tear, what an infinite relief it would be!  but

Mary have learn to spend her life in have no self.









CHAPTER VI.



farewell.



  what yet be there that I should do,

    linger in this darksome vale?

  proud and mighty, fair to view,

    be our scheme, and yet they fail,

  like the sand before the wind,

    that no power of man can bind.

                      ARNDT, Lyra Germanica.





Dynevor Terrace be say to have dark, damp kitchen, but by none who

have ever be in no. 5, when the little compact fire be compress to

one glow red crater of cinder, their smile laugh ruddily back

from the bright array on the dresser, the drugget lay down, the round

oaken table bring forward, and Jane Beckett, in afternoon trim,

tend her geranium, the offspring of the parting Cheveleigh nosegay,

or gauffree her mistress's cap.  no wonder that on raw evening,

Master James, Miss Clara, or my young Lord, have often be find

gossip with Jane, toast their own cheek as well as the bread, or

pinch their finger in her gauffreing machine.



yet, poor little Charlotte Arnold learn that the kitchen could be

dreary, when Mrs. Beckett have be summon to nurse Lord Fitzjocelyn,

and she remain in sole charge, under Mrs. Martha's occasional

supervision.  she find herself, her household care over all too soon,

on a cold light March afternoon, with the clock tick loud enough for

midnight, the smoke-jack indulge in supernatural groan, and the

whole lonely house full of undefined terror, with an unlimited space

of the like solitude before she.  she would even have be glad to be

sure of an evening of Mrs. Martha's good advice, and of darn

stocking!  she sit down by the round table to Mr. James's wristband;

but every creak or crack of the furniture make she start, and think of

death-watch.  she might have learn to contemn superstition, but that

do not prevent it from affect her nerve.



she spread her favourite study, the Old English Baron, on the table

before she; but the hero have some connexion in her mind with Tom

Madison, for whom she have always covet a battle-field in France. what

would he feel when he hear how he have fill up his course of evil,

be well-nigh the death of his benefactor!  if any one ought to be

haunted, it would assuredly be no other than Tom!



Chills run over she at the thought, she turn to the fire as the

thing near life, but at the moment start at a hollow call of her

own name.  a face be look in at she through the geranium!  she

shriek aloud, and clasp her hand over her eye.



'don't make a row.  open the door!'



it be such a relief to hear something unghostly, that she spring to

the door; but as she undo it, all her scruple seize she, and she

try to hold it, say, 'don't come in!  you unfortunate boy, do you

know what you have do?'



but Tom Madison be in a mood to which her female nature cower.  he

push the door open, say authoritatively, 'tell I how he be!'



'he be as ill as he can be to be alive,' say Charlotte, actuate at

once by the importance of be the repository of such tiding, and by

the excitement of communicate they to one so deeply concerned. 'Mr.

Poynings come in to fetch Mrs. Beckett--he would have no one else to

nurse he--and he say the old Lord and Missus have never have their

clothe off these two night.'



'then, be it along of they stone?' ask the lad, hoarsely.



'yourself should know well!' return Charlotte.  'Mr. Poynings say

'twas a piece of rock as big as that warming-pan as crush his ankle!

and you know--'



'I know nothing,' say Tom.  'Master keep I in all day yesterday, and

I only hear just now at Little Northwold, where I've be to take home

some knife of Squire Calcott's.  Master may blow I up if he like,

but I couldn't come till I'd hear the right of it.  be he so very

bad?'



'they've send up to London for a doctor,' pursue Charlotte.  'Mr.

Walby don't give but little hope of he.  poor young gentleman, I'm

sure he have a good word from high and low!'



'well! I'm go!' cry Tom, vehemently.  'goodbye to you, Charlotte

Arnold!  you'll never see I in these part more!'



'Gone!  oh, Tom! what do you mean!'



'D'ye think I'll stay here to have this here cast in my face?  such a

one as willn't never walk the earth again!' and he burst out into

passionate tear.  'I wish I be dead!'



'oh, hush, Tom!--that be wicked!'



'may be so!  I be all that's wicked, and you all turn against I!'



'I don't turn against you,' sob Charlotte, move to the bottom of

her gentle heart.



'you! you turn against I long ago.  you've be too proud to cast

one look at I these three month; and he forget I; and that's what

draw I on, when who care what become of I--nor I neither now.'



'don't speak that way!  don't say 'twas pride.  oh no! but I have to

behave proper, and how should I keep up acquaintance when they say you

go on--unsteady--'



'aye, aye!  I know how it be,' say poor Tom, with break-down

humility: 'I be not fit for you then, and I'm next thing to a murderer

now; and you're like a white dove that the very finger of I would

grime.  I'll take myself out of your way; but, let what will come of

I, I'll never forget you, Charlotte.'



'oh, wait, Tom!  if I could but say it right!--Oh! I know there's

something about bide patiently, and get a blessing--if you'd only

stop while I recollect it.'



'I think I hear voice!' exclaim Mrs. Martha, suddenly descend

on they.  'I wonder you ben't ashamed of yourself, and the family in

such trouble!  downright owdacious!'



'be this your house?' say Tom, step before Charlotte, his

dejection give way instantly to rude independence.



'oh, very well,' say Martha, with dignity.  'I know what to expect

from such sort of people.  the house and young woman be in my charge,

sir; and if you don't be off, I'll call the police.'



'never trouble your old bone!' retort Tom.



'good-bye to you, Charlotte;' and, as in defiance of Martha, he take

her passive hand.  'you'll remember one as love you true and faithful,

but be drive desperate!  good-bye!  I'll not trouble no one no more!'



the three concluding negative with which he dash out of the house

utterly overwhelmed Charlotte, and make she perfectly insensible to

Mrs. Martha's objurgation.  she believe in the most horrible and

desperate intention, and sob herself into such violent hysteric

that Miss Mercy come in to assist--imagine that the rude boy have

terrify she, misunderstood her shameface attempt at explanation,

and leave she lie on her bed, cry quietly over her secret terror,

and over that first, strangely-make declaration of love. the white

dove! she do not deserve it, but it be so poetical! and poor Tom be

so unhappy!  she have not time even to think what be become of her own

character for wisdom and prudence.



the next morning, between monition and triumph, Martha announce that

the good-for-nothing chap be off with a valuable parcel of Mr.

Calcott's, and the police be after he; with much more about his

former idle habits,--frequenting of democratic oratory, public-house,

and fondness for bad company and stroll actor.  Meek and easily

cow, Charlotte only open her lip to say she know that he have take

home Mr. Calcott's parcel.  but this bring down a storm on she for

be impertinent enough to defend he, and she sat tremble till it

have subside; and Martha retreating, leave she to weep unrestrainedly

over her wild fancy, and the world's cruelty and injustice towards

one whom, as she be now ready to declare, she love with her whole

heart.



the bell ring sharply, knock rattle at the front door!  she be sure

that Tom have be just take out of the river!  but instinct to answer

the bell awake at the second furious clattering and double pealing,

which allow no time for she to compose her tear-streak, swollen

face, especially as the hasty sound suggest 'Mr. James.'



Mr. James it be, but the expect rebuke for keep he wait be

not speak.  as he see her sorrowful look, he only say, low and

softly, 'be it so, Charlotte?'  in his eye, there could be but one

cause for grief, and Charlotte's heart smite she for hypocrisy, when

she could barely command her voice to reply, 'no, sir; my Lord have have

a little well night.'



he speak with unusual gentleness, as he make more inquiry than she

could answer; and when, after a few minute, he turn to walk on to

Ormersfield, he say, kindly, 'good-bye, Charlotte; I'll send you word

if I find he well:' and the tear rise in his eye at the thought

how every one love the patient.



he be not wrong.  there be everywhere great affection and sympathy

for the bright, fantastic be whom all laugh at and like, and

Northwold and the neighbourhood feel that they could have well spare

something more valuable.



the danger be hardly exaggerate even by Charlotte.  the chill of the

long exposure have bring on high fever; and besides the crushed ankle,

there have be severe contusion, which have result in an acute pain

in the side, hitherto untouched by remedy, and beyond the

comprehension of the old Northwold surgeon, Mr. Walby.  as yet,

however, the idea of peril have not present itself to Louis, though he

be perfectly sensible.  severe pain and illness be new to he; and

though not fretful nor impatient, he have not the stoicism either of

pride or of physical indifference, put little restraint on the

expression of suffering, and be to an almost childish degree absorb

in the present.  he be always considerate and grateful; and his fond

affection for his Aunt Catharine, and for good old Jane, never fail

to show itself whenever they do anything for his relief; and they be

the good of nurse.



Poor Lord Ormersfield long to be equally effective; but he be

neither handy nor ready, and could only sit hour after hour beside his

son, never move except to help the nurse, or to try to catch the

slight accent of the sufferer.  look up when Louis would, he always

see the same bow head, and earnest eye, which, as Mrs. Ponsonby tell

her daughter, look as they do when Louisa be die.



the coming of the London surgeon be an era to which Louis evidently

look anxiously, with the iteration of sickness, often reckon the

hour till he could arrive; and when at last he come, there be an

evident effort to command attention.



when the visit be over, and the surgeon be take leave after the

consultation, Fitzjocelyn calmly desire to know his opinion, and keep

his eye steadily fix on his face, weigh the import of each word.

all depend on the subduing the inflammatory action, in the side; and

there be every reason to hope that he would have strength for the

severe treatment necessary.  there be no reason to despond.



'I understand--thank you,' say Louis.



he shut his eye, and lie so still that Mrs. Frost trust that he

sleep; but when his father come in, they be open, and Lord

Ormersfield, bend over he, hope he be in less pain.



'thank you, there be not much difference.'  but the plaintive sound be

go, the suffering be not the sole thought.



'Walby be come with the leech at two o'clock,' say Lord

Ormersfield: 'I reckon much on they.'



'thank you.'  Silence again, but his face speak a wish, and his aunt

Catharine say, 'what, my dear?'



'I should like to see Mr. Holdsworth,' say Louis, with eye appeal

to his father.



'he have be here to inquire every day,' say the Earl, choose

neither to refuse nor understand.  'whenever it be not too much for

you--'



'it must be quickly, before I be weak,' say Louis.  'let it be

before Walby return, father.'



'whatever you wish, my dear--' and Lord Ormersfield, turn towards

the table, write a note, which Mrs. Frost offer to despatch, think

that her presence oppress her eld nephew, who look bow down by

the intensity of grief, which, unexpresse, seem to pervade the whole

man and weigh he to the earth: and perhaps this also strike Louis for

the first time, for, after having lain silent for some minute, he

softly say, 'Father!'



the Earl be instantly beside he, but, instead of speak, Louis

gaze in his face, and sigh, as he murmur, 'I be mean to have

be a comfort to you.'



'my dear boy--' begin Lord Ormersfield, but he could not trust his

voice, as he see Louis's eye moist with tear.



'I wish I have!' he continue; 'but I have never be anything but a

care and vexation, and I see it all too late.'



'Nay, Louis,' say his father, try to assume his usual tone of

authority, as if to prove his security, 'you must not give way to

feeling of illness.  it be weak to despond.'



'it be good to face it,' say the young man, with slow and feeble

utterance, but with no quailing of eye or voice.  'but oh, father! I

do not think you would feel it so much.  I be not worth it.'



for the Earl could neither speak nor breathe, as if smother by one

mighty unuttered sob, and hold his son's hand between both his own,

press it convulsively.



'I be glad Mrs. Ponsonby be here,' say Louis; 'and you will soon find

what a nice fellow Edward Fitzjocelyn be, whom you may make just what--'



'Louis, my own boy, hush!  I cannot bear this,' cry his father, in an

accent wring from he by excess of grief.



'I may recover,' say Louis, find it his turn to comfort, 'and I

should like to be long with you, to try to make up--'



'you will.  the leech must relieve you.  only keep up your spirit:

you have many year before you of happiness and success.'



the word bring a look of oppression over Louis's face, but it

clear as he say, 'I be more willing to be spare those year!'



his father positively start.  'Louis, my poor boy,' he say, 'be it

really so?  I know I have seem a cold, severe father.'



'oh, do not say so!' exclaim Louis; 'I have deserve far less-idle,

ungrateful, careless of your wish.  I do not know I could pain you

so much, or I would not have do it.  you have forgive often, say you

forgive now.'



'you have far more to forgive than I,' say the Earl.



'if I could tell you the half-waywardness, discontent, neglect, levity,

waste time--my treatment of you only three day back. everything

purposed--nothing do!  oh! what a life to bring before the Judge!'

and he cover his face, but his father hear long-draw sob.



'compose yourself, my dear boy,' he exclaim, exceedingly grieve and

perplexed.  'you know there be no cause to despond; and even--even if

there be, you have no reason to distress yourself.  I can say, from

the bottom of my heart, that you have never give I cause for real

anxiety, your conduct have be exemplary, and I never see such

attention to religion in any young man.  these be mere trifles--'



'oh, hush, father!' exclaim Louis.  'you be only make it bad;

you little know what I be!  if Mr. Holdsworth would come!'



'he could only tell you the same,' say his father.  'you may take

every comfort in think how blameless you have be, keep so clear

of all the fault of your age.  I may not have esteem you as you

deserve, my poor Louis; but, be assure that very few can have so

little to reproach themselves with as you have.'



Louis almost smile.  'poor comfort that,' he say, 'even if it be

true; but oh, father!' and there be a light in his eye, 'I have think

of 'he hath blot out like a cloud thy transgression.''



'that be right.  one like you must find comfort in think.'



'there be comfort ineffable,' say Louis; 'but if I know what I may

dare to take home to myself!  it be all so dim and confused.  this pain

will not let anything come connectedly.  would you give I that little

manuscript book!'



it be give; and as the many loose leave fall under Louis's weak

hand, his father be amazed at the mass of copy of prayer, text,

and meditation that he have bring together; the early page

contain childish prayer write in Aunt Catharine's hand. Louis's

cheek colour at the revelation of his hidden life, as his father put

they together for he.



'it be of no use,' he say, sadly; 'I cannot read.  perhaps my aunt

would come and read this to I.'



'let I,' say his father; and Louis look pleased.



Lord Ormersfield read what be point out.  to he it be a glimpse of

a very new world of contrition, faith, hope, and prayer; but he see the

uneasy expression on Louis's face give place to serenity, as one

already at home in that sphere.



'thank you,' he say.  'that be what I want.  Mr. Holdsworth will

soon come, and then I don't want to say much more.  only don't take

this too much to heart--I be not worth it; and but for you and the dear

Terrace home, I can be very glad.  if I may hope, the hope be so

bright!  here there be so many way of go wrong, and all I do

always fail; and yet I always try to do he service.  oh, to have

all perfect!--no failure--no inconsistency--no self!  can it be?'



'I always try to do he service!' sadly and dejectedly as the word

be speak--mournful as be the contrast between the will and the

result, this be the true cause that there be peace with Louis.

unstable, negligent, impetuous, and weak as he have be, the one

earnest purpose have be his, guard the heart, though not yet

control the judgment.  his soul be awake to the unseen, and thus

the sense of the reality of bliss ineffable, and power to take comfort

in the one great Sacrifice, come with no novelty nor strangeness.  it

be a more solemn, more painful preparation, but such as he have

habitually make, only now it be for a more perfect Festival.



his father, as much awestruck by his hope as distress by his

penitence, still give himself credit for having soothe he, and go

to meet and forewarn the Vicar that poor Fitzjocelyn be inclined to

despond, and be attach such importance to the mere, foible in a

most innocent life, that he require the most tender and careful

encouragement.  he speak in his usual tone of authoritative courtesy;

and then, find that his son wish to be leave alone with Mr.

Holdsworth, he go to the library to seek the only person to whom he

could bear to talk.



'Mary,' he say, 'you be right.  I have do so little to make that

poor boy of mine happy, that he do not wish for life.'



Mrs. Ponsonby look up surprised.  'be you sure of what he mean?'

she say.  'be it not that this life have nothing to compare with that

which be to come?'



'but what can be more unnatural?' say the Earl.  'at his age, with

everything before he, nothing but what he feel as my harshness could

so have check hope and enjoyment.  my poor Louis!'  and, though eye

and voice be steady and tearless, no word could express the anguish

of his under-tone.



Mrs. Ponsonby adduce instance show that, to early youth, with

heart still untainted by the world, the joy of the Life Everlasting

have often so beam out as to efface all that earth could promise, but

he could not be argue out of self-reproach for his own want of

sympathy, and speak mournfully of his cold manner, sternness to small

fault, and denial of gratification.



Mary the young could not help rise from her corner to say, 'indeed,

Louis say the other day that you never have deny he any personal

indulgence.'



'my dear, he never ask for personal indulgence,' say the Earl. his

further speech be interrupt by a quick step, a slow opening of the

door, and the entrance of James Frost, who grasp his outstretche

hand with a breathless inquiry.



'he be very ill--' Lord Ormersfield pause, too much oppress to say

more.



'no well?  what do the London surgeon say? what?'



'he say there be no time to be lose in attack the inflammation. if

we can subdue that, he may recover; but the state of the ankle weaken

he severely.  I believe myself that he be go fast,' say the Earl,

with the same despairing calmness; and James, after gaze at he to

collect his meaning, drop into a chair, cover his face with his

hand, and sob aloud.



Lord Ormersfield look on as if he almost envy the relief of the

outburst, but James's first movement be to turn on he, as if he be

neglect his son, sharply demand, 'who be with he?'



'he wish to be leave with Mr. Holdsworth.'



'be it come to this!' cry James.  'oh, why do I not come down with

he?  I might have prevent all this!'



'you could not have act otherwise,' say the Earl, kindly.  'your

engagement be already form.'



'I could!' say James.  'I would not.  I think it one of your excuse

for help we.'



'it be vain to lament these thing now,' say Lord Ormersfield.  'it be

very kind in you to have come down, and it will give he great pleasure

if he be able to see you.'



'if!'  James stammer between consternation and anger at the doubt,

and treat the Earl with a kind of imply resentment as if for

injustice suffer by Louis, but it be affect to see his petulance

receive with patience, almost with gratitude, as a proof of his

affection for Louis.  the Earl stand upright and motionless before the

fire, answer steadily, but in an almost inward voice, all the

detailed question put by James, who, seat on one chair, with his

hand lock on the back of the other, look keenly up to he with his

sharp black eye, often overflow with tear, and his voice break by

grief.  when he have elicit that Louis have be much excited and

distress by the thought of his failing, he burst out, 'whatever you

may think, Lord Ormersfield, no one ever have less on his conscience!'



'I be sure of it.'



'I know of no one who would have give up his own way again and again

without a murmur, only to be call fickle.'



'yes, it have often be so,' meekly say Lord Ormersfield.



'fickle!' repeat James, warm with the topic, and pour out what

have be boil within for year.  'he be only fickle because his

standard be too high to be reach!  you think he weak!'



'there may be weakness by nature strengthen by principle,' say Mrs.

Ponsonby.



'true,' cry Jem, who, having take no previous notice of she, have at

first on her speak bend his brow on she as if to extend to her the

storm he be inflict on poor, defenceless Lord Ormersfield, 'he be

think soft because of his easy way; but come to the point where harm

display itself, you cann't move he a step far--though he hang

back in such a quiet, careless fashion, that it seem as if he be only

tired of the whole concern, and so it go down again as

changeableness.'



'you always do he justice,' say Lord Ormersfield, lay his hand on

his cousin's shoulder, but James retreat ungraciously.



'I suppose, where he see evil, he actually take a dislike,' say Mrs.

Ponsonby.



'it be an absolute repugnance to anything bad.  you,' turn again on

the Earl, 'have an idea of his be too ready to run into all sort of

company; but I tell you there be no danger.'



'you tell I I might trust to his disgust to anything unrefined or

dissipate.  you know he well.'



'there be that about he which man, not otherwise particular, respect

as they might a woman or a child.  they never show themselves in their

true colour, and I have know he uphold they because he have never

see their bad side!'



'I have always think he learn that peculiar refinement from your

grandmother.'



'I think,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, softly, 'that it be purity of heart

which make he see heaven so bright.'



'Sydney Calcott walk part of the way with I,' continue Jem, 'and

show more feeling than I think be in he.  he say just what I do,

that he never see any one to whom evil seem so unable to cling. he

speak of he at school--say he be the friend of all the junior, but

too dreamy and uncertain for fellow of his own standing.  he say, at

first they do not know what to make of he, with his soft look and

cool way--they could not make he understand bully, for he could

not be frightened nor put in a passion.  only once, one great lout

try force bad language on he, and then Fitzjocelyn strike he,

fight he, and be thoroughly lick, to be sure: but Calcott say it

be a moral victory--no one try the like again--'



James be interrupt by Mr. Holdsworth's entrance.  he say a few

word apart to the Earl, who answer, with alarm, 'not now; he have

go through enough.'



'I tell he so, but he be very anxious, and beg I to return in the

evening.'



'thank you.  you have well join we at dinner.'



the Vicar understand Lord Ormersfield well than do James, and say,

press his hand, 'my Lord, it be heart-breaking, but the blessedness

be more than we can feel.'



Mrs. Ponsonby and Mary be leave to try to pacify James, who be half

mad at his exclusion from the sickroom, and very angry with every hint

of resignation--abuse the treatment of the doctor, call Mr. Walby

an old woman, and vehemently bent on prophesy the well-doing of the

patient.  keenly sensitive, grief and suspense make he unusually

irritable; and he seem to have no power of wait patiently, and

trust the event to wiser Hands.



Mrs. Ponsonby dared not entertain any such ardent wish.  Life have not

afford she so much joy that she should deem it the great good, and

all that she have hear give she the impression that Louis be too soft

and gentle for the world's hard encounter,--most pure and innocent,

sincere and love at present, but rather with the quality of

childhood than of manhood, with little strength or perseverance, so

that the very dread of taint or wear make it almost a relief to think

of his freshness and sweetness be secure for ever.  even when she

think of his father, and shrink from such grief for he, she could

not but see a hope that this affliction might soften the heart close

up by the first and far bad sorrow, and detach it from the interest

that have absorb it too exclusively.  all this be her food for silent

meditation.  Mary sit read or work beside she, paler perhaps than

she willnot, and betray that her ear catch every sound on the stair,

but venture no word except the most matter-of-fact remark, quietly

give force to the more favourable symptom.



not till after Mr. Walby's second visit, when there be a little

respite in the hard life-and-death contest between the remedy and the

inflammation, could Mrs. Frost spare a few moment for her grandson.

she meet he on the stair--throw her arm round his neck, call he

her poor Jemmy, and hastily tell he that he must not make her cry.  he

look anxiously in her face, and tell she that he must take her place,

for she be wear out.'



'no, thank you, my dear, I can rest by-and-by.'



it sound very hopeless.



'come, granny, you always take the bright side.'



'who know which be the bright side?' she say.  'such as he be always

the first.  but there, dear Jem, I tell you not to make too much of

granny--' and hastily withdraw her hand, she give a parting caress

to his hair as he stand on the step below she, and return to her

charge.



it would have be an inexpressible comfort to James to have have some

one to reproach.  his own wretchedness be like a personal injury, and

an offence that he could resent would have be a positive relief.  he

be force to get out of the way of Frampton come up with a tray of

lemonade, and glare at he, as if even a station on the stair be

deny, then dash out of door, and pace the garden, goad by every

association the scene recall.  it seem a mere barbarity to deprive

he of what he now esteem as the charm of his life--the cousin who

have be as a brother, ever seek his sympathy, never offend by his

sharp, imperious temper, and though often slight or tyrannize over,

meet all in his own debonnaire fashion, and never forsake the

poor, hard-work student, so that he might well feel that the world

could not offer he aught like Louis Fitzjocelyn.



he stand in the midst of the botanical garden, and, with almost

triumphant satisfaction, prognosticate that now there would be regret

that Louis's scheme have be neglect or sneer at, and when too

late, his father might feel as much sorrow as he have time for.  it be

the bitterness, not the softness of grief, in which he look forth

into the dull blue east-windy haze deepening in the twilight, and

presently behold something dark move along under the orchard bank

beneath.  'Hollo! who's there?' he exclaim, and the form, rear

itself, disclose young Madison, never a favourite with he, and

though, as a persecute protege of Louis, have claim which at

another time might have soften he, come forward at an unlucky

moment, when his irritation only want an object on which to discharge

itself.  it be plain that one who come skulk in the private ground

could intend no good, and James greet he, harshly, with 'you've no

business here!'



'I'm do no harm,' say the boy, doggedly, for his temper be as

stubborn as James's be excitable.



'no harm! lurk here in that fashion in the dark!  you'll not make I

believe that!  let I hear what bring you here!  the truth, mind!'



'I come to hear how Lord Fitzjocelyn be,' say Tom, with brief

bluntness and defiance.



'a likely story!  what, you come to ask the apple-tree?' and James

scornfully laugh.  'there be no back-door, I suppose!  I could

forgive you anything but such a bareface falsehood, when you know it

be your own intolerable carelessness that be the only cause of the

accident!'



'well say 'twa yourself!' cry Tom, hoarse with passion and shake

all over.



the provocation be intense enough to bring back James's real principle

and self-restraint, and he speak with more dignity.  'you seem to be

beside yourself, Madison,' he say, 'you have well go at once, before

any one find you here.  Lord Fitzjocelyn care for you so much, that I

should not wish for you to meet your desert under present

circumstance.  go!  I wish to have no more of your tongue!'



the boy be bound off, while James walk slowly after to see he

beyond the ground, and find Warren the keeper, desire he to be on

the look-out.  Warren reply with the tiding that Madison have run

away from his place, and that the police be look out for he on

the suspicion of having steal Mr. Calcott's parcel, moralize far

on the depravity of such doing when my young Lord be so ill, but

accounting for the whole by pronounce poach to be breed in the bone

of the Marksedge people.



this little scene have do Jem a great deal of good, both by the

exhalation of bitterness and by the final exertion of forbearance. he

have, indeed, be under two great fallacy on this day,--soothing

Charlotte for the grief that be not cause by Fitzjocelyn's illness,

and drive to extremity the lad brim over with sorrow not inferior

to his own.  Little do he know what a gentle word might have do for

that poor, wild, tempestuous spirit!



yet, James's heart smite he that evening, when, accord to Louis's

earnest wish, Mr. Holdsworth come again, and they all be admit to

the room, and he see the feeble sign and summon to the Vicar to bend

down and listen.  'tell poor Madison, it be wrong in I not to go to

see he.  give he one of my book, and tell he to go on well!'



that day have be one of rapid change, and the remedy and suffering

have so exhausted Louis that he could scarcely speak, and seem hardly

conscious who be present.  all his faculty be absorb in the one

wish, which late in the evening be grant.  the scene be like an

epitome of his life--the large irregular room, cumber with the

disorderly apparatus of all his multifarious pursuit, while there he

lie on his little narrow iron bed, his feature so fair and colourless

as to be strangely like his mother's marble effigy--his eye close,

and his brow often contract with pain, so that there be a doubt how

far his attention be free, but still with a calm, pure sweetness, that

settle down more and more, as if he be be lull into a sleep.



'he be asleep,' Mrs. Frost say, as they all rise up.



they feel what that sleep might become.



'we might as well wish to detain a snow-wreath,' think Mr. Holdsworth.









CHAPTER VII.



GOSSAMER.



  Chaos be come again.--Othello.





that sleep be not unto death.  when James and Mary come simultaneously

creep to the door in the grey twilight of the morning, they hear

that there have be less pain and more rest, and gradually throughout

the day, there be a diminution of the dangerous symptom, till the

trembling hope revive that the patient might be give back again to

life.



James be still sadly aggrieve at be forbid the sick-room, and

exceedingly envy Lord Ormersfield's seat there.  he declare, so that

Mary doubt whether it be jest or earnest, that the Earl only

remain there because society expect it from their relative

position, and that it must retard poor Fitzjocelyn's recovery to be

perpetually basiliske by those cold grey eye.  Mary stand up

gallantly for the Earl, who have always be so kind to she, and, on her

mother's authority, vouch for his strong though hide, feeling; to

which Jem reply, 'aye! he be hide a strong fear of be too late

for the beginning of the session.'



'I do not think it right to impute motive,' say Mary.



'I would not, Mary, if I could help it,' say James, 'but through the

whole course of my life I have never see a token that his lordship be

worthy of his son.  if he be an ordinary, practical, common-place

block, apt to support his dignity, he might value he, but all the

grace, peculiarity, and conventionality be a mere burthen and vexation,

utterly waste.'



Mary know that she be a common-place block, and do not wonder at

herself for not agree with James, but cherish a strong conviction

that the father and son would now leave off rub against each other;

since no unprejudiced person could doubt of the strong affection of the

father, nor of the warm gratitude of the son. in spite of the asperity

with which James speak of the Earl, she be begin to like he

almost as much as she esteem he.  this have not be the case in

their childhood, when he use to be praise by the elder for his

obedience to his grandmother and his progress in the Northwold Grammar

School; but be terribly overbearing with his junior, and whether he

cuff Louis or lead he into mischief, equally distress she.  grown

up, he be peculiarly vif, quick and ready, unselfish in all his way,

and warmly affectionate--very agreeable companion where his

sensitiveness be not wound, and merit high honour by his deep

quality.  Young as he be, he have already relieve his grandmother

from his own maintenance: he have turn to the utmost account his

education at the endow school at Northwold; by sheer diligence, have

obtain, first a scholarship and then a fellowship at Oxford; and now,

by practise rigid economy, and spend his vacation in tuition, he

be enable to send his sister to a boarding-school.  he have steal a

few day from his pupil on hearing of Fitzjocelyn's danger, but be

force to return as soon as the improvement became confirm.  on the

previous day, he ask Mary to walk with he to the scene of the

accident, and they discuss the cause with more coolness than they

really feel, as they shudder at the depth of the fall, and the size

of the stone.



James declare it all the fault of that runaway scamp, young Madison,

in whom Louis have always be deceive, and who have never be see

since the night of his apparition in the garden.



'poor boy! I suppose that be the reason he run away,' say Mary.



'a very good thing, too.  he would never have be anything but a

torment to Louis.  I remember tell he he be set the stone so

as to break the neck of some one!'



'I think it would be of more use to build they up than to settle how

they break down,' say Mary.  'do you think we could manage it safely?'



'a capital thought!' cry James, eagerly, and no soon say than

do.  the two cousin set to work--procure some cement from the

bricklayer in the village, and toil at their masonry with right

good-will as long as light and time serve they, then make an

appointment to meet at half-past six next morning, and finish their

work.



when the rendezvous take place, they be rejoice over Mrs. Frost's

report of an excellent night, and over her own happy look, from which

James prognosticate that all her fatigue and watching have do no harm

to her vigorous frame, for which gladness be always the good cordial.

it be a joyous beginning on that spring morning, and seem to add

fresh sparkle to the dazzle dewdrop, and double merriment to the

blackbird and thrush answer each other far and wide, around, as

the sun draw up the grey veil of morning mist. 'they all seem hold a

feast for his recovery!' exclaim Mary, warm for once into poetry,

as she trudge along, leave green footmark in the silver dew.



'well they may,' say James; 'for who love they well than he?  I

grudge myself this lovely morning, when he be lie there, and my poor

Clara be cage up at that place--the two who would the most enjoy it.'



'your go to see she will be as good as the spring morning.'



'poor child!  I dread it!' sigh Jem.



it be his first voluntary mention of his sister.  he have always turn

the conversation when Mrs. Ponsonby or Mary have try to inquire for

she, and Mary be glad to lead he on to say more.



'I remember she last when you be teach she to run alone, and

let none of we touch she, because you say she be your child, and

belong to no one else.'



'I should not be so ungrateful, now that I be come to the sense of my

responsibility in teach she to go alone.'



'but she have Aunt Catherine,' say Mary, think that he be put

the natural guardian out of the question as much now as in the day

refer to.



'my grandmother never have to do with any girl before, and do not

profess to understand they.  she let Clara be regularly a boy in

school, at first learn the same lesson, and then teach; and

whatever I try to impress in the feminine line, naturally, all go

for nothing.  she be as wild as a hare, and have not a particle of a

girl about she!'



'but she be very young.'



'there it be again!  she grow so outrageously.  she be not sixteen,

and there she be tall than granny already.  it be get quite

absurd.'



'what advice do you want on that head?'



'seriously, it be a disadvantage, especially to that sort of girl, who

cann't afford to look like a woman before her time.  well, as she must

probably depend on herself, I look out for as good a school as could

be have for the mean, and think I have succeed, and that she would

be bring into some sort of shape.  Granny be ready to break she

heart, but think it quite right.'



'then, do it not answer?'



'that be just what I cann't tell.  you have be use to school: I wish

you could tell I whether it be a necessary evil, or Clara's own

idiosyncrasy, or peculiar to the place.'



'whether what be?'



'her misery!'



'misery!  why, there be nothing of that in her letter to my aunt.

there be not a complaint.'



'she be a brave girl, who spare granny, when she know it would be of

no use to distress she.  Judge now, there's the sort of letter that I

get from she.'



Mary read.





'DEAREST JEMMY,--Write to I as quick as ever you can, and tell I how

Louis be; and let I come home, or I shall run mad.  it be no good

tell I to command my feeling; I be sure I would if I could, for

the girl be more detestable than ever; but what can one do when one

cannot sleep nor eat?  all the screaming and crying have get into one

bump in my throat, because I cann't get it out in peace.  if I could

only shy the inkstand at the English teacher's head! or get one moment

alone and out of sight!  let I come home.  I could at least run

message; and it be of no use for I to stay here, for I cann't learn,

and all the girl be look at I.  if they be but boy, they would

have sense! or if I could but kick they!  this will make you angry, but

do forgive I; I cann't help it, for I be so very unhappy.  Louis be as

much to I as you be, and no one ever be so kind; but I know he will

get well--I know he will; only if I know the pain be well, and could

but hear every minute.  you need not come to fetch I; only send I a

telegraph, and one to Miss Brigham.  I have money enough for a

second-class ticket, and would come that instant.  if you see the eye

and hear the whisper of these girl, I be sure you would.  I should

laugh at such nonsense any other time, but now I only ask to be

wretche quietly in a corner.



              'your affectionate, nearly crazy, sister,

                                       'CLARA FROST DYNEVOR.'





Mary might well say that there be nothing more expedient than go to

see Clara, and 'much,' say poor James, 'he should gain by that,'

especially on the head that make he most uneasy, and on which he could

only hint lightly--namely, whether the girl be 'put nonsense in

her head.'



'if they have do she any harm, she would never have write such a

letter,' say Mary.



'true,' say Jem.  'she be a mere child, and never get that notion into

her head for a moment; but if they put it in, we be do for! or if

the place be ever so bad, I cann't remove she now, when granny be thus

occupy.  one reason why I make a point of she go to school be,

that I think do everything that Fitzjocelyn do be no preparation

for be a governess.'



'oh! I hope it will not come to that!  Mr. Oliver Dynevor talk of

come home in a very few year.'



'so few, that we shall be grey before he come.  no; Clara and I be

not go to be bind to he for the wealth heap up while my

grandmother be leave in poverty.  we mean to be independent.'



Mary be glad to revert to Clara.



'I must do the good I can for she for the present,' say Jem,--'try to

harden she against the girl, and leave she to bear it.  poor dear! it

make one's heart ache!  and to have do it oneself, too! then, in the

holiday, perhaps, you will help I to judge.  you will be her friend,

Mary; there's nothing she need so much.  I think she would have

find one at school but they be not the right stamp of animal.  she

have be too much throw on Louis; and though he have make a noble thing

of she, that must come to an end, and the soon the well.'



certainly, it be a perplexity for a young eld brother; but there

could not but remain some simple wonder in Mary's mind whether the

obvious person, Mrs. Frost, have not well have be leave to decide for

her granddaughter.



the building operation give full occupation to the power of the two

cousin, and in good time before breakfast, all be successfully

completed,--a hand-rail affix, and the passage clear out, till it

look so creditable, as well as solid, that there be no more to wish

for but that Louis should be able to see their handiwork.



James go away in the well spirit for having be allow to shake

Louis by the hand and exchange a few word with he.  Mary augur that

it would be the well for Clara and for the pupil.



all that far transpire from he be a cheerful letter to Mrs.

Frost, speak of Clara as perfectly well, and begin to

accommodate herself to her situation, and from this Mary gather that

he be well satisfied.



the day bring gradual improvement to the patient, under Mrs. Frost's

tender nursing, and his father's constant assiduity; both of which, as

he revive, seem to afford he the great pleasure, and be

requite with the utmost warmth and caress sweetness towards his

aunt, and towards his father with ever-fresh gratitude and delight.

Lord Ormersfield be like another man, in the sick-room, whence he

never willingly absent himself for an hour.



one day, however, when he be force to go to Northwold on business,

Louis put on a fit of coax importunity.  nothing would serve he but

some of Jane Beckett's choice dry pear, in the corner of the oaken

cupboard, the key of which be in Aunt Kitty's pocket, and no one must

fetch they for he but Aunt Kitty herself, he be so absurdly earnest

and grave about they, that Jane scold he, and Mrs. Frost see

recovery in his arch eye; understand all the time that it be all

an excuse for compliment Jane, and send she to air herself, visit

the Faithfull sister, and inspect the Lady of Eschalott.  so she

consent to accompany Lord Ormersfield, and leave their charge to Mrs.

Ponsonby, who find Louis quite elated at the success of his

manoeuvre--so much disposed to talk, and so solicitous for the good of

his nurse, that she venture on a bold stroke.



his chamber be nearly as much like a lumber-room as ever; for any

attempt to clear away or disturb his possession have seem, in his

half-conscious condition, to excite and tease he so much, that it have

be at once relinquish.  although the room be large, it be always

too much crowded with his good; and the table and chair that have

be bring in during his illness, have add to the accumulation which

be the despair of Mrs. Beckett and Mr. Frampton. Mrs. Ponsonby think

it be time for Louis to make a sacrifice in his turn, and venture to

suggest that he be well enough to say where some of his thing might

be bestow; and though he wince, she persevere in represent how

unpleasant it must be to his father to live in the midst of so much

confusion.  the debonnaire expression pass over his face, as he

glance around, say, 'you be right. I never reflect on the

stretch of kindness it must have be.  it shall be do.  if I lose

everything, it will not be soon that I find it out.'



it evidently cost he a good deal, and Mrs. Ponsonby propose that Mary

should come and deal with his treasure; a plan at which he catch so

eagerly, that it be decide that no time be like the present, and

Mary be call.  he could move nothing but his hand; but they be

eagerly hold out in welcome: and his eye glitter with the bright

smile that once she have fear never to see again. she feel a moisture

in her own which make she glad to turn aside to her task even while he

compliment she with an allusion to the labour of Hercules.  it do

not seem uncalled-for, when she begin by raise a huge sheet of paper

that have be throw in desperation to veil the confusion upon the

table, and which prove to be the Ordnance map of the county,

embellish with numerous streak of paint.  'the outline of the old

Saxon wappentake,' say Louis: 'I be try to make they out in blue,

and the roman road in red. that mark be spontaneous; it have be

against some paint.'



which paint be find in dry swamp in saucer, while cake of lake

and prussian blue adhere to the drawing-board.



'the colour-box be probably in the walnut-press; but I advise you not

to irritate that yet.  let I see that drawing, the design for the

cottage that Frampton nip in the bud--'



'how pretty and comfortable they do look!' exclaim Mary, please to

come to something that be within her sphere of comprehension. 'if they

be but finish!'



'ah!  I think of they when I be lie there in the dell!   have they

be allow to stand where I want they, there would have be no

lack of people go home from work; but, 'quite impracticable' come in

my way, and I have no heart to finish the drawing.'



'what a pity!' exclaim Mary.



'this be Richardson's veto, two degree bad than Frampton's; and I

shall never be able to abuse Frampton again.  I have see he in his

true light now, and never be any one more kind and considerate.  ha,

Mary, what's that?'



'it look like a rainbow in convulsion.'



'now, Mary, do not I tell you that I could not laugh?  it be a diagram

to illustrate the theory of light for Clara.'



'do she understand _that_?' cry Mary.



'Clara?  she understand anything but go to school--poor child! yes,

burn that map of the strata,--not that--it be to be a paint window

whenever I can afford one, but I never could make money stay with I.

I never could think why--'



the _why_ be evident enough in the heterogeneous mass--crumple

print, blank drawing-paper, and map heap ruinously over and under

book, stuff bird, geological specimen, dislocated microscope,

piece of roman pavement, curiosity innumerable and indescribable;

among which roam blot-book, memorandum-book, four piece of

indian rubber, three pair of compass, seven paper-knife, ten knife,

thirteen odd glove, fifteen pencil, pen beyond reckon, a purse, a

key, half a poem on the Siege of Granada, three part of an essay upon

Spade Husbandry, the dramatis personae of a tragedy on Queen

Brunehault, score of old letter, and the dust of three year and a

half.



Louis own that the arrangement conduce to find rather than

lose, and rejoice at the disinterment of his long-lose treasure;

but either he grow weary, or the many fragment, the ghost of depart

fancy, make he thoughtful; for he become silent, and only watch

and smile as Mary quietly and noiselessly complete her reform, and

arrange table and chair for the comfort of his father and aunt.  he

thank she warmly, and hope that she would pursue her kind task

another day,--a permission which she justly esteem a great testimony

to she having avoid annoy he.  it be a great amusement to he to

watch the surprised and pleased look of his various nurse as each

come in, and a real gratification to see his father settle himself with

an air of comfort, observe that 'they be under great obligation to

Mary.'  still, the sight of the arrangement have leave a dreary,

dissatisfied feeling with Louis: it might have be catch from Mary's

involuntary look of disappointment at each incomplete commencement that

she encountered,--the multitude of undertaking hastily begin, lay

aside and neglect--nothing properly carry out.  it seem a mere

waste of life, and dwelt on his spirit, with a weariness of himself

and his own want of steadfastness--a sense of having disappoint she

and disappoint himself, and he sigh so heavily several time, that

his aunt anxiously ask whether he be in pain.  he be, however, so

much well, that no one be to sit up with he at night--only his

father would sleep on a bed on the floor.  as he bid he good night,

Louis, for the first time, make the request that he might have his

Bible give to he, as well as his little book; and on his father

advise he not to attempt the effort of reading, he say, 'thank you;

I think I can read my two verse: I want to take up my old habit.'



'have you really keep up this habit constantly?' ask his father, with

wonder that Louis do not understand.



'Aunt Catharine teach it to we, he say.  'I neglect it one

half-year at school; but I grow so uncomfortable, that I begin again.'



the Earl give the little worn volume, say, 'yes, Louis, there have

be a thread run through your life.'



'has there be one thread?' sadly muse Louis, as he find the weight

of the thick book too much for his weak hand, and his eye and head

too dizzy and confused for more than one verse:--



     'I be come that they might have life,

      and that they might have it more abundantly.''



the Bible sink in his hand, and he fall into a slumber so sound and

refreshing, that when he open his eye in early morning, he do not

at first realize that he be not awaken to health and activity, nor

why he have an instinctive dread of move.  he turn his eye towards

the window, uncurtained, so that he could see the break dawn.  the

sky, deep blue above, fade and glow towards the horizon into gold,

red and more radiant below; and in the midst, fast becoming merge

in the increase light, shine the planet Venus, in her pale, calm

brilliance.



there be repose and delight in dwell on that fair morning sky, and

Louis lie dreamily gaze, while thought pass over his mind, more

define and connect than pain and weakness have as yet permit.

since those hour in which he have rouse his faculty to meet with

approach death, he have be seldom awake to aught but the sensation

of the moment, and have only just become either strong enough, or

sufficiently at leisure for anything like reflection.  as he watch

the eastern reddening, he could not but revert to the feeling with

which he have believe himself at the gate of the City that need

neither sun nor moon to lighten it, and, for the first time, he

consciously realize that he be restore to this world of life.



the sensation be not unmixe.  his youthful spirit bound at the

prospect of return vigour, his warm heart clung round those whom he

love, and the perception of his numerous fault make he grateful for

a long probation; but still he have a sense of having be at the

border of the glorious land, and thence turn back to a tedious,

doubtful pilgrimage.



there be much to occasion this state of mind.  his life have be

without great trouble, but with many mortification; he have never be

long satisfied with himself or his pursuit, his ardour have only be

the prelude to vexation and self-abasement, and in his station in the

world there be little incentive to exertion.  he have a strong sense of

responsibility, with a temperament make up of tenderness, refinement,

and inertness, such as shrank from the career set before he.  he have

see just enough of political life to destroy any romance of

patriotism, and to make he regard it as little more than party spirit,

and dread the hardening and deadening process on the mind.  he have a

dismal experience of his own philanthropy; and he have a conscience that

would not sit down satisfied with selfish ease, pleasure, or

intellectual pursuit.  his smooth, bright, love temper have make he

happy; but the past be all melancholy, neglect, and futile enterprise;

he have no attach home--no future vision; and, on the outskirt of

manhood, he shrink back from the turmoil, the temptation, and the

roughness that await he--nay, from the mere effort of perseverance,

and could almost have sigh to think how nearly the death-pang have

be over, and the home of Love, Life, and Light have be win for

ever:--



     'I be come that they might have life,

      and that they might have it more abundantly.'



the word return on he, and with they what his father have say, 'you

have have a thread run through your life.'  he be in a state

between sleep and wake, when the confine of reflection and

dream come very near together, and when vague impression, hardly

notice at the time they be make, begin to tell on he without his

own conscious volition.  it be to he as if from that brightening

eastern heaven, multitude of thread of light be float hither and

thither, as he have often watch the gossamer undulating in the

sunshine.  some be firm, purely white, and glisten here and there

with rainbow tint as they tend straight upwards, shine more and

more into the perfect day; but for the most part they be tangle

together in inextricable confusion, intermingle with many a break

end, like fleece of cobweb drive together by the autumn wind,--some

sailing aimlessly, or with shatter tangle strand-some white, some

dark, some anchor to mere leave or spray, some tend down to the

abyss, but all in such a perplexed maze that the eye could seldom trace

which be direct up, which downward, which be of pure texture,

which defile and stain.



in the abortive, unsatisfactory attempt to follow out one fluctuating

clue, not without whiteness, and heave often upwards, but frail,

wavering, ravel, and tangle, so that scarcely could he find one

line that hold together, Louis awake to find his father wonder that

he could sleep with the sun shine full on his face.



'it be hardly quite a dream,' say Louis, as he relate it to Mrs.

Frost.



'it would make a very pretty allegory.'



'it be too real for that just now,' he say.  'it be the moral of all

my broken strand that Mary hold up to I yesterday.'



'I hope you be go to do more than point your moral, my dear.  you

always be good at that.'



'I mean it,' say Louis, earnestly.  'I do not believe such an

illness--ay, or such a dream--can come for nothing.'



so back go his thought to the flaw in his own course; and chiefly

he bewail his want of sympathy for his father.  material obedience

and submission have be yield, but, have little cause to believe

himself belove, his heart have never be call into action so as to

soften the clashing of two essentially dissimilar character. instead

of rebel, or even of murmur, he have hide disappointment in

indifference, take refuge in levity and versatility, and even console

himself by sport with what he regard as prejudice or unjust

displeasure.  all this cost he much regret and self-reproach at each

proof of the affection so long veil by reserve.  never would he have

give pain, have he guess that his father could feel; but he have grow

up to imagine the whole man make up of politic and conventionality,

and his new discovery give he at least as much contrition as

pleasure.



after long study of the debate, that morning, his father prepare to

write.  Louis ask for the paper, say his sense would just serve

for the advertisement, but presently he make an exclamation of

surprise at behold, in full progress, the measure which have bring

Sir Miles Oakstead to Ormersfield, one of peculiar interest to the

Earl.  his blank look of wonder amuse Mrs. Ponsonby, but seem

somewhat to hurt his father.



'you do not suppose I could attend to such matter now?' he say.



'but I be so much well!'



fear that the habit of reserve would check any exchange of feeling,

Mrs. Ponsonby say, 'do you fancy your father could not think of you

except upon compulsion?'



'I beg your pardon, father,' say Louis, smile, while a tear rise to

his eye, 'I little think I be obstruct the business of the

nation.  what will Sir Miles do to I?'



'Sir Miles have write a most kind and gratifying letter,' say Lord

Ormersfield, 'express great anxiety for you, and a high opinion of

your power.'



Louis have never hear of his own power, except for mischief, and the

colour return to his cheek, as he listen to the kind and cordial

letter, write in the first shock of the tiding of the accident. he

enjoy the pleasure it give his father far more than the commendation

to himself; for he well know, as he say, that 'there be something

embellish in a catastrophe,' and he suppose 'that have drive out

the rose-colour pastor.'



'there be always indulgence at your age,' say the Earl.  'you have

create an impression which may be of great importance to you

by-and-by.'



Louis recur to politic.  the measure be one which approve itself

to his mind, and he show all the interest which be usually stifle,

by such subject be force on he.  he be distressed at detain

his father when his presence might be essential to the success of his

party, and the Earl could not bear to leave he while still confine to

his bed.  the little scene, so calm, and apparently so cold, seem to

cement the attachment of father and son, by convince Louis of the

full extent of his father's love; and his enthusiasm begin to invest

the Earl's grey head with a perfect halo of wisdom slight and

affection injure; and the tenor of his thread of life shine out bright

and silvery before he, spin out of project of devote heart and soul

to his father's happiness, and merit his fondness.



the grave Earl be look through a magnifying-glass no less powerful.

he have not be so happy since his marriage; the consciousness of his

own cold manner make he grateful for any demonstration from his son,

and the many little grace of look and manner which Louis have inherit

from his mother add to the charm. the sense of previous injustice

enhance all his good quality, and it be easy to believe he

perfect, while nothing be require of he but to lie still.  Day and

night do Lord Ormersfield wait upon he, grudge every moment spend

away from he, and try to forestall each wish, till he become almost

afraid to express a desire, on account of the trouble it would cause.

Mary find the Earl one day wander among the vine in the old

hothouse, in search of a flower, when, to her amusement, he select a

stiff pert double hyacinth, the special aversion of his son, who

nevertheless receive it most graciously, and would fain have conceal

the headache cause by the scent, until Mrs. Frost privately abstract

it.  another day, he go, unasked, to hasten the birdstuffer in

finish the rose-colour pastor; and when it come, himself bring

it up-stair, unpacked it, and set it up where Louis could good admire

its black nodding crest and pink wing; unaware that to his son it

seem a memento of his own misdeed--a perpetual lesson against

wayward carelessness.



'it be like a new love,' say Mrs. Ponsonby; 'but oh! how much depend

upon Louis after his recovery!'



'you don't mistrust his goodness now, mamma!'



'I could not bear to do so.  I believe I be think of his father

more than of himself.  after having be so much strike by his

religious feeling, I dread nothing so much as his father find he

deficient in manliness or strength of character.'









CHAPTER VIII.



a truant disposition.



  gather up each break thread.

                             WHYTEHEAD.





'Tom Madison be come back,' say the Vicar, as he sit beside

Fitzjocelyn's couch, a day or two after Lord Ormersfield have go to

London.



'come back--where have he be?' exclaim Louis.



'there!' say the Vicar, with a gesture of dismay; 'I forget that you

be to hear nothing of it!  however, I should think you be well

enough to support the communication.'



'what be it?' cry Louis, the blood rush into his cheek so

suddenly, that Mr. Holdsworth feel guilty of having disregard the

precaution that he have fancy exaggerate by the fond aunt.  'poor

fellow--he have not--' but, check himself, he add, 'I be

particularly anxious to hear of he.'



'I wish there be anything more gratifying to tell you; but he take

the opportunity of the height of your illness to run away from his

place, and have just be pass home to his parish.  after all your

pain, it be very mortifying, but--'



'Pains!  don't you know how I neglect he latterly!' say Louis.

'poor fellow--then--' but he stop himself again, and add, 'you

hear nothing of the ground?'



'they be not difficult to find,' say Mr. Holdsworth.  'it be the old

story.  he be, as Mrs. Smith tell I, 'a great trial'--more and more

disposed to be saucy and disobedient, take up with the most

good-for-nothing boy in the town, haunt those Chartist lecture,

and never come home in proper time at night.  the very last evening,

he have come in at eleven o'clock, and when his master rebuke he, come

out with something about the right of man.  he be send to Little

Northwold, about the middle of the day, to carry home some

silver-handle knife of Mr. Calcott's, and return no more. Smith

fancy, at first, that he have make off with the plate, and set the

police after he, but that prove to be an overhasty measure, for the

parcel have be safely leave.  however, Miss Faithfull's servant find

he frightening Mrs. Frost's poor little kitchen-maid into fit, and

the next day James Frost detect he lurk suspiciously about the

garden here, and set Warren to warn he off--'



Louis give a kind of groan, and strike his hand against the couch in

despair, then say, anxiously, 'what then?'



'no more be hear of he, till yesterday the police pass he home to

the Union as a vagabond.  he look very ill and ragged; but he be in

one of those sullen mood, when no one can get a word out of he. Smith

decline prosecute for run away, be only too glad of the

riddance on any term; so there he be at his grandfather's, ready for

any sort of mischief.'



'Mr. Holdsworth,' say Louis, raise himself on his elbow, 'you be

judge, like every one else, from appearance.  if I be at liberty

to tell the whole, you would see what a noble nature it be that I

trifle with; and they have be hound--Poor Tom! would it have be

well for he that I have never see he?  it be a fearful thing, this

blind treading about among soul, not know whether one do good or

harm!'



'if you feel so,' say Mr. Holdsworth, hope to lead he from the

unfortunate subject, 'what must _we_ do?'



'my position, if I live, seem to have as much power for evil, without

the supernatural power for good.  do hastily, or leave undone, be

equally fatal!'



'Nay, what hope can there be but in fear, and sense of responsibility?'



'I think not.  I do more mischief than those who do not go out of their

way to think of the matter at all!'



'do you!' say the Vicar, smile.  'at least, I know, for my own part,

I prefer all the trouble and perplexity you give I, to a squire who

would let I and my parish jog on our own way.'



'I dare say young Brewster never spoil a Tom Madison.'



'the sight of self indulgence spoil more than injudicious care do.

besides, I look on these experiment as give experience.'



'nice experience of my good effort!'



'pardon I, Fitzjocelyn, have we see your good?'



'I hope you will!' say Louis, vigorously.  'and to begin, will you

tell this poor boy to come to I?'



Mr. Holdsworth have an unmitigated sense of his own indiscretion, and

not such a high one of Fitzjocelyn's discretion as to make he think

the interview sufficiently desirable for the culprit, to justify the

possible mischief to the adviser, whose wisdom and folly be equally

perplexing, and who would surely be either disappointed or deceive.

dissuasion and argument, however, fail; and Mrs. Frost, who be

appeal to as a last resource, no soon find that her patient's

heart be set on the meeting, than she consent, and persuade Mr.

Holdsworth that no harm would ensue equal to the evil of her boy lie

there distress himself.



accordingly, in due time, Mr. Holdsworth admit the lad, and, on a

sign from Louis, shut himself out, leave the runaway stand within

the door, a monument of surly embarrassment.  raise himself, Louis

say, affectionately, 'never mind, Tom, don't you see how fast I be

get over it?'



the lad look up, but apparently see little such assurance in the thin

pale cheek, and feeble, recumbent form; for his face twitch all

over, resume the same sullen stolidity, and be bent down again.



'come near, Tom,' continue Louis, with unabated kindness--'come and

sit down here.  I be afraid you have suffer a great deal,' as the boy

shamble with an awkward footsore gait.  'it be a great pity you run

away.'



'I couldn't stay!' burst out Tom, half cry.



'why not?'



'not to have that there cast in my tooth!' he exclaim, with blunt

incivility.



'do any one reproach you?' say Louis, anxiously.  'I think no one

know it but ourselves.'



'you know it, then, my Lord?' ask Tom, stare.



'I find out directly that there be no cement,' say Louis.  'I have

suspect it before, and intend to examine whenever I have time.'



'well!  I think, when I come back, no one do seem to guess as 'twa

all along of I!' cry Tom.  'so sure I think you haven't know it,

my Lord.  and you never say nothing, my Lord!'



'I trust not.  I would not consciously have accuse you of what be

quite as much my fault as your.  that would not have be fair play.'



'if I willn't give it to Bill Bettesworth!' cry Tom.



'what have he done?'



'always tell I that gentlefolk haven't get no notion of fair play

with the like of we, but hold we like the dirt to be trample on! but

there--I'll let he know--'



'who be he?'



'a young man what work with Mr. Smith,' return Tom, his sullenness

having give place to a frank, open manner, such as any one but Louis

would have deem too free and ready.



'be he your great friend at Northwold?'



'a chap must speak to some one,' be Tom's answer.



'and what kind of a some one be he?'



'why, he come down illershall way.  he know a thing or two, and can

go on like an orator or a play-book--or like yourself, my Lord.'



'thank you.  I hope the thing or two be of the right sort.'



Tom look sheepish.



'I hear something about bad companion.  I hope he be not one.  I

ought to have come and visit you, Tom; I have be very sorry I do

not.  you'd well let I hear all about it, for I fear there must have

be bad scrape than this of the stone.'



'bad!' cry Tom--'sure nothing could be worserer!'



'I wish there be no evil bad than careless forgetfulness,' say

Louis.



'I don't forget!' say Tom.  'I mean to have tell you whenever you

come to see I, but'--his eye fill and his voice begin to

alter--'you never come, and she at the Terrace wouldn't look at I!

and Bill and the rest of they be always at I, ask when I expect

my aristocrat, and jeer I 'cause I'd say you ben't like the rest

of 'em.  so then I think I'd have my liberty too, and show I don't

care no more than they, and spite you all.'



'how little one think of the grievous harm a little selfish

heedlessness may do!' sigh Louis, half aloud.  'if you have only

look to something well than I, Tom!  and so you run into mischief?'



half confession, half vindication ensue, and the poor fellow's story

be manifest enough.  his fault have be unsteadiness and misplace

independence rather than any of the more degrading stamp of evil. the

public-house have not be seek for liquor's sake, but for that of the

orator who inflame the crude imagination and aspiration that

effervesce in the youth's mind; and the rudely-exercise authority of

master and foreman have only drive his fierce temper far astray.

with sense of right sufficient to be dissatisfied with himself, and

taste and principle just enough develop to loathe the evil round

he, harden and sour by Louis's neglect, and render discontent

by Chartist preacher, he have come to long for any sort of change or

break; and the tiding of the accident, couple with the hard word

which he know himself to deserve but too well, have put the finishing

stroke.



hear that the police be in pursuit of he, he have fancy it be

on account of the harm do by his negligence.  'I hide about for a

day,' he say: 'somehow I feel as if I could not go far off, till I

hear how you be, my Lord, and I'd make up my mind that as soon as

ever I hear the first stroke of the bell, I'd go and find the police,

and his Lordship might hang I, and glad!'



Louis be near a tear than a smile.



'then Mr. Frost find I, and be mad at I.  nothing ben't bad enough

for I, and he set Mr. Warren to see I off, so I have nothing for it

but to cut.'



'what do you think of do?' sigh Louis.



'I make for the sea.  if I could have get to they place in the Indies,

such as that Philip go to, as you read about in the verse-book--he

as kill his wife and lose his son, and make friend with that there

big rascal, and have the chest of gold--'



'Philip Mortham!  be you go in search of buccaneer?'



'I don't know, my Lord.  once you tell I of some English Sir, as kill

the pirate, and be some sort of a king.  I think, may be, now you'd

tell I where they go to dig for gold.'



'oh, Tom, Tom, what a mess I have make of your notion!'



'ben't there no such place?'



'it's a bad business, and what can you want of it?'



'I want to get shut of they as order one about here and there, with

never a civil word.  besides,' look down, 'there's one I'd like to

see live like a lady.'



'would that make she happy?'



'I'll never see she put about, and slave and drudge, as poor mother

do!' exclaim Tom.



'that's a well spirit than the mere dislike to a master,' say Louis.

'what be life but obedience?'



'I'd obey fast enough, if folk would only speak like you do--not drive

one about like a dog, when one know one be every bit as good as they.'



'I'm sure I never know that!'



Tom stare broadly.



'I never see the person who be not my superior,' repeat Louis,

quietly, and in full earnest.  'not that this would make rough word

pleasanter, I suppose.  the only cure I could ever see for the ill of

the world be, that each should heartily respect his neighbour.'



paradox musingly utter, and fly over his head, wear to Tom a

natural and comfortable atmosphere; and the conversation proceed.

Louis find that geography have be as much at fault as chronology, and

that the runaway have find himself not at the sea, but at Illershall,

where he have apply for work, and have take a great fancy to Mr.

Dobbs, but have be reject for want of a character, since the good

superintendent make it his rule to keep up a high standard among his

man.  Wandering have succeed, in which, moneyless, forlorn, and unable

to find employment, he have be oblige to part with portion of his

clothing to procure food; his strength begin to give way, and he have

be find by the police sleep under a hedge; he be question, and

send home, crestfallen, sullen, and miserable, unwilling to stay at

Marksedge, yet not know where to go.



his hankering be for Illershall, and Louis, think of the judicious

care, the evening school, and the opening for promotion, decide at

once that the experiment should be try without loss of time.  he

desire Tom to bring he ink and paper, and hastily write:





'DEAR MR. DOBBS,--You would do I a great kindness by employ this

poor fellow, and bear with he.  I have manage he very ill, but he

would reward any care.  have an eye to he, and put he in

communication with the chaplain.  if you can take he, I will write

more at length.  if you have hear of my accident, you will excuse more

at present.



                            'your very truly,

                                   'fitzjocelyn.'





then arise the question, how Tom be to get to Illershall.  he do not

know; and Louis direct his search into the place where the loose

money in his pocket might have be put.  when it be find, Tom

scruple at the propose half-sovereign.  three-and-fourpence would pay

for his ticket.  'you will want a supper and a bed.  go respectably,

Tom, and keep so. it will be some consolation for the mischief I have

do you!'



'you do I harm!' cry Tom.  'why, 'tis all along of you that I

ben't a regularly-build scamp!'



'very irregularly build, whatever you be!' say Louis.  but I'll tell

you what you shall do for I,' continue he, with anxious earnestness.

'do you know the hollow ash-tree that shade over Inglewood stile?  it

have a stout sucker, with a honeysuckle grow into it--come up among

the moss, where the great white vase-shape fungus grow up in the

autumn.'



'I know he, my Lord,' say Tom, brighten at the detail, give with

all a sick man's vivid remembrance of the out-of-door world.



'I have fix my mind on that stick!  I think it have a bend at the

root.  will you cut it for I, and trim it up for a walking-stick?'



'that I will, my Lord!'



'thank you.  bring it up to I between seven and eight in the morning,

if you please; and so I shall see you again--'



Mr. Holdsworth be already enter to close the conversation, which

have be already over-long and exciting, for Louis, sink back,

mournfully exclaim, 'the medley of that poor boy's mind be the bad

of my piece of work.  I have make he too refined for one class, and

leave he too rough for another--discontent with his station, and too

desultory and insubordinate to rise, nobleness of nature turn to

arrogance, fact and fiction all mix up together. it would be a study,

if one be not so sorry!'



nevertheless, Mr. Holdsworth could not understand how even Fitzjocelyn

could have give the lad a recommendation, and he would have

remonstrate, but that the long interview have already be sufficiently

try; so he do his good to have faith in his eccentric friend's good

intention.



in the early morning, Tom Madison make his appearance, in his good

clothe, erect and open-face, a strong contrast to the jade, downcast

be who have yesterday present himself.  the stick be prepared to

perfection, and Louis acknowledge it with gratitude proportion to

the fancy that he have spend on it, poise it, feel the cool grey

bark, and raise himself in bed to try how he should lean on it.

'hang it up there, Tom, within my reach.  it seem like a beginning of

independence.'



'I wish, my Lord,' blurt out Tom, in agitation, 'you'd tell I if

you're to go lame for life, and then I should know the bad of it.'



'I suspect no one know either the bad or the good,' say Louis,

kindly.  'since the pain have go off, I have be content, and ask

no question.  Mr. Walby say my ankle be go on so well, that it be

a real picture, and a pleasure to touch it; and though I cann't say the

pleasure be mutual, I ought to be satisfy.'



'you'll only laugh at I!' half sob Tom, 'and if there be but

anything I could do!  I've wish my own leg be cut off--and serve I

right--ever since I see you lie there.'



'thank you; I'm afraid they would have be no use to I!  but,

seriously, if I have be moderately prudent, it would not have

happen.  and as it be, I hope I shall be glad of that roll in Ferny

dell to the end of my life.'



'I do go to see after mend they stone!' cry Tom, as if injure

by lose this one compensation; 'but they be all do up, and there

ben't nothing to do to they.'



'look here, Tom: if you want to do anything for I, it be easily tell,

what would be the great boon to I.  they tell I I've spoil you,

and I partly believe it, for I put more of my own fancy into you than

of real good, and the way I treat you make you impatient of control:

and then, because I could not keep you on as I should have wished,--as,

unluckily, you and I be not make to live together on a desert

island,--I leave you without the little help I might have give.  now,

Tom, if you go to the bad, I shall know it be all my fault--'



'that it ben't,' the boy try to say, eagerly, but Louis go on.



'don't let my bad management be the ruin of you.  take a turn from this

moment.  you know who can help you, and who, if you have think of he,

would have keep you straight when I forget.  put all the stuff out of

your head about one man be equal to another.  equal they be; but

some have the trial of ruling, other of obey, and the last be the

lucky one.  if we could only see their soul, we should know it.

you'll find evening school and lecture at Illershall; you'd well

take to they, for you've more real liking for that sort of thing than

for mischief; and if you finish up your education, you'd get into a

line that would make you happy, and where you might do much good.

there--promise I that you'll think of these thing, and take heed to

your Sundays.'



'I promise,' say Tom.



'and mind you write to I, Tom, and tell how you get on.  I'll write,

and let you know about your grandfather, and Marksedge news and all--'



the 'thank you, my Lord,' come with great pleasure and alacrity.



'some day, when you be a foreman, perhaps I may bring Miss Clara to

see copper-smelting.  only mind, that you'll never go on soundly, nor

even be fit to make your pretty tidy nest for any gentle bird, unless

you mind one thing most of all; and that be, that we have have a new

life give we, and we have to begin now, and live it for ever and ever.'



as he raise himself, hold out his pale, slender hand from his white

sleeve, his clear blue eye earnestly fix on the sky, his face all

one onward look, something of that sense of the unseen pass into the

confused, turbulent spirit of the boy, very susceptible of poetical

impression, and his young lord's countenance connect itself with all

the float notion leave in his mind by parable or allegory.  he do

not speak, as Louis heartily shake his hardy red hand, and bid he

good speed, but his bow and pull forelock at the door have in they

more of real reverence than of conventional courtesy.



of taste and perception above his breeding, the very sense of his own

deficiency have make he still more rugged and clownish, and remove

he from the sympathy of his own class, while he almost idolize the

two most refined being whom he know, Lord Fitzjocelyn and Charlotte

Arnold.  on an interview with she, his heart be set. he have take

leave of his half-childish grandfather, make up his bundle, and march

into Northwold, with three hour still to spare ere the starting of the

parliamentary train.  Sympathy, hope, resolution, and the sense of

respectability have make another man of he; and, above all, he dwell on

the prospect hold out of repair the deficiency of his learning.

the consciousness of ignorance and awkwardness be very painful, and he

long to rub it off, and take the place for which he feel his power.

'I will work!' think he; 'I have a will to it, and, please God, when

I come back next, it willn't be as a rough, ignorant lout that I'll stand

before Charlotte!'







'Louis,' say Mary Ponsonby, as she sit at work beside he that

afternoon, after an expedition to the new house at Dynevor Terrace, 'I

want to know, if you please, how you have be act like a gentleman.'



'I do not know that I have be act at all of late.'



'I could not help hear something in Aunt Catharine's garden that have

make I very curious.'



'ha!' cry Louis, eagerly.



'I be sow some annual in our back garden, and hear voice through

the trellis.  presently I hear, quite loud, 'my young Lord have behave

like a real gentleman, as he be, and no mistake, or I'd never have be

here now.'  and, presently, 'I've promise he, and I promise you,

Charlotte, to keep my church, and have no more to do with they thing.

I'll keep it as sacred as they keep the Temperance pledge; for sure

I'm bind to he, as he forgive I, and keep my secret as if I'd be

his own brother: and when I've prove it, willn't that satisfy you,

Charlotte?'



'and what do Charlotte say?'



'I think she be cry; but I think listen any more would be

unfair, so I run upstairs and throw up the drawing-room window to warn

they.'



'oh, Mary, how unfeeling!'



'I think it could be do no good!'



'that be so like prudent people, who can allow no true love under five

hundred pound a year!  do you see they?  how do they look?'



'Charlotte be stand in an attitude, her hand clasp over her

broom.  the gentleman be a country-look boy--'



'bear himself like a sensible, pugnacious cock-robin?  poor fellow,

so you mar their parting.'



'Charlotte fly into the house, and the boy walk off up the garden.

be he your Madison, Louis? for I think my aunt do not think it

right to encourage he about her house.'



'and so he be to be thwart in what would well raise and refine he.

that great, bright lead star of a well-place affection be not to be

allow to help he through all the storm and quicksand in his way.'



Good Mary might well open her eye, but, ponder a little, she say,

'he need not leave off like Charlotte, if that be to do he good; but

I suppose the question be, what be safe for she?'



'well, he be safe enough.  he be go to Illershall to earn she.'



'oh! then I don't care!  but you have not answer I, and I think I

can guess the boy's secret that you have be keep.  do you not

once tell I that you trust those stone in Ferny dell to he?'



'now, Mary, you must keep his secret!'



'but why be it make one?  do you think it unkind to say that it be

his fault?'



'of course I do.  when I think it be all over with I, I could not

go and charge the poor fellow with it, so as to make he a marked man.

I be only afraid that thinking so often of stop myself, I should

bring it out by mistake.'



Mary look down, and think; then raise her eye suddenly, and say,

as if surprised, 'that be really very noble in you, Louis!' then,

think on, she say, 'but how few people would think it worth while!'



'yes,' say Louis; 'but I have a real regard for this poor fellow, and

an instinct, perhaps perverse, of shield he; so I could not accuse

he on my own account.  besides, I believe I be far more guilty towards

he.  his neglect only hurt my ankle--my neglect leave he to fall into

temptation.'



'yet, by the way he talk of you--'



'yes, he have the sort of generous disposition on which a little

delicacy make a thousand time more impression than a whole pile of

benefit I hope and trust that he be go to repair all that be past.

I wish I could make out whether good intention overrule error in

detail, or only make they more fatal.'



Mary be glad to reason out the question.  abstract practical view

interested she, and she have much depth and observation, more original

than if she have read more and think less.  of course, no conclusion

be arrive at; but the two cousin have an argument of much enjoyment

and some advantage to both.



affair glide on quietly till the Saturday, when Lord Ormersfield

return.  never have he so truly know what it be to come home as when

he mount the stair, with step unlike his usual measured tread, and

behold his son's look of animate welcome, and eager, outstretche

hand.



'I be afraid,' say the Earl, presently, 'that you have not feel so

well,' and he touch his own upper lip to indicate that the same

feature in his son be cover with down like a young bird.



Louis blush a little, but speak indifferently.  'I think it a pity

not to leave it for the regulation moustache for the Yeomanry.'



'I wish I could think you likely to be fit to go out with the Yeomanry.'



'every effort must be make!' cry Louis.  'what do they say in London

about the invasion?'



it be the year 1847, when a french invasion be in every one's mouth,

and Sydney Calcott have be retail all sort of fact about

war-steamer and artillery, in a visit to Fitzjocelyn, whose patriotism

have forthwith run mad, so that he look quite baffled when his father

coolly set the whole down as 'the regular ten year' panic.'  there be

a fervid glow within he of awe, courage, and enterprise, the outward

symbol of which be that infant yellow moustache.  he be oblige,

however, to allow the subject to be dismiss, while his father tell

he of Sir Miles Oakstead's kind inquiry, and give a message of

greeting from his aunt Lady Conway, deliver himself of it as an

unpleasant duty, and add, as he turn to Mrs. Ponsonby, 'she

desire to be remember to you, Mary.'



'I have not see she for many year.  be Sir Walter alive?'



'no; he die about three year ago.'



'I suppose her daughter be not come out yet?'



'her own be in the school-room; but there be a step-daughter who be

much admired.'



'those cousin of mine,' exclaim Louis, 'it be strange that I have

never see they.  I think I have well employ some of my spare time

this summer in make their acquaintance.'



Mrs. Ponsonby perceive that the Earl have become inspire with a deadly

terror of the handsome stepdaughter; for he turn aside and begin to

unpack a parcel.  it be M'Culloch's Natural Theology, into which Louis

have once dip at Mr. Calcott's, and have express a wish to read it.

his father have take some pain to procure this too-scarce book for

he, and he seize on it with delighted and surprised gratitude,

plunge at once into the middle, and read aloud a most eloquent

passage upon electricity.  no beauty, however, could atone to Lord

Ormersfield for the outrage upon method.  'if you would oblige I,

Louis,' he say, 'you would read that book consecutively.'



'to oblige you, certainly,' say Louis, smile, and turn to the

first page, but his vivacious eagerness be extinguish.



M'Culloch be not an author to be thoroughly read without a strong

effort.  his gem be of the pure ray, but they lie embed in a

hard crust of reasoning and disquisition; and on the first morning,

Louis, barely strong enough yet for a battle with his own volatility,

look, and own himself, dead beat by the first chapter.



Mary take pity on he.  she have be much interested by his account of

the work, and would be delighted if he would read it with she. he

brighten at once, and the regular habit begin, greatly to their

mutual enjoyment.  Mary like the argument, Louis like explain it;

and the flood of allusion be delightful to both, with his richness of

illustration, and Mary's actual experience of ocean and mountain.  she

bring he whatever book he want, and from the benevolent view of

entertain he while a prisoner, come to be more interested than she

mother have ever expect to see she in anything literary.  it be

amusing to see the two cousin unconsciously educate each other--the

one learn expansion, the other concentration, of mind.  Mary could

now thoroughly trust Louis's goodness, and therefore begin by bear

with his vagary, and gradually trace the grain of wisdom that be

usually at their root; and her eye be open to new world, where

all be not evil or uninteresting that Aunt Melicent distrust.  Louis

make she teach he Spanish; and his insight into grammar and keen

delight in the majestic language and rich literature infect she,

while he be amuse by her positive distaste to anything incomplete,

and playfully, though half murmuringly, submit to his 'good

governess,' and let she keep he in excellent order.  she know where

all his property be, and, in her quaint, straightforward way, would

refuse to give he whatever 'be not good for he.'



it be all to oblige Mary that, when he could sit up and use pen and

pencil, he set to work to finish his cottage plan, and soon draw and

talk himself into a vehement condition about Marksedge.  Mary's

patronage draw on the work, even to hasty learning of perspective

enough for a pretty elevation intelligible to the unlearned, and a

hopeless calculation of the expense.



the plan lie on the table when next his father come home, and their

interest be explain.



'do you draw all these yourself?' exclaim the Earl.  'where do you

learn architectural drawing?  I should have think they do by a

professional hand.'



'it be easy enough to get it up from book,' say Louis; 'and Mary keep

I to the point, in case you should be willing to consider the matter.

I would have write out the estimate; but this book allow for brick,

and we could use the stone at Inglewood more cheaply, to say nothing of

beauty.'



'well,' say Lord Ormersfield, consider, 'you have every right to

have a voice in the management of the property.  I should like to hear

your view with regard to these cottage.'



colour deeply, and with earnest thank, Fitzjocelyn state the

injury both to labourer and employer, cause by their distance from

their work; he explain where he think the building ought to stand,

and be even guard enough to show that the rent would justify the

outlay.  he have consider the matter so much, that he could even have

encounter Richardson; and his father be only afraid that what be so

plausible _must_ be insecure.  caution contend with a real desire to

gratify his son, and to find he in the right.  he must know the wish

of the farmer, be sure of the cost, and be certain of the spot

intend.  his crippled mean have estrange he from duty that he

could not fulfil accord to his wish, and, though not a hard

landlord, he have no intercourse with his tenant, take little interest

in his estate, and be such a stranger to the locality, that Louis

could not make he understand the nook select for the building.  he

have see the arable field call 'Great Courtiers,' and the farm call

'Small Profits,' on the map, but do not know their up and down much

well than the coast of China.



'Mary know they!' say Louis.  'she make all my measurement there,

before I plan the garden.'



'Mary seem to be a good friend to your design,' say the Earl,

look kindly at she.



'the good!' say Louis.  'I begin to have some hope of my doing when I

see she take they in hand.'



Lord Ormersfield thank Mary, and ask whether it would be

trespass too much on her kindness to ask she to show he the place

in question.  she be delighted, and they set out at once, the Earl

almost overpower she by his exceed graciousness, so that she be

nearly ready to laugh when he compliment she on know her way

through the bye-path of his own park so much well than he do. 'it

be a great pleasure to I that you can feel it something like home,' he

say.



'I be so happy here as a child,' say Mary, heartily, 'that it must

seem to I more of a home than any other place.'



'I hope it may always be so, my dear.'



he check himself, as if he have be about to speak even more warmly;

and Mary do the honour of the propose site for the cottage, a waste

strip front a parish lane, open to the south, and look full of

capability, all of which she point out after Louis's well-learn

lesson, as eagerly as if it have be her own affair.



Lord Ormersfield give due force to all, but still be prudent.  'I must

find out,' he say, 'whether this place be in my hand, or include in

Morris's lease.  you see, Mary, this be an encumbered property, with

every disadvantage, so that I cannot always act as you and Louis would

wish; but we so far see our way out of our difficulty, that, if

guide by good sense, he will be able to effect far more than I have

ever do.'



'I believe,' be Mary's answer, 'this green be in the farmer's hand,

but that he have no use for it.'



'I should like to be certain of his wish.  farmer be so unwilling

to increase the rate, that I should not like to consent till I know

that it would be really a convenience to he.'



Mary suggest that there stand the farmhouse; and the Earl

apologetically ask if she would dislike their proceeding thither, as

he would not detain her long.  she eagerly declare that Louis would be

'so glad,' and Lord Ormersfield turn his step to the door, where he

have only be once in his life, when he be a very young man, try to

like shoot.



the round-eyed little maid would say nothing but 'walk in, sir,' in

answer to inquiry if Mr. Norris be at home; and they walk into a

parlour, chill with closed window, and as stiff and fine as the lilac

streamer of the cap that Mrs. Norris have just put on for their

reception.  nevertheless, she be a sensible, well-mannered woman, and

after explain that her husband be close at hand, show genuine

warmth and interest in inquire for Lord Fitzjocelyn.  as the

conversation begin to flag, Mary have recourse to admire a handsome

silver tankard on a side table.  it be the prize of a ploughing-match

eight year ago, and bring out a story that evidently always go

with it, how Mrs. Norris have be unwell and stay at home, and have

first hear of her husband's triumph by see the young Lord gallop

headlong up the homefield, hurraing, and wave his cap.  he have take

his pony the instant he hear the decision, and rush off to be the

first to bring the news to Mrs. Norris, wild with the honour of small

Profits.  'and,' say the farmer's wife, 'I always say Norris be as

pleased with what I tell he, as I be with the tankard!'



Norris here come in, an unpretending, quiet man, of the modern,

intelligent race of farmer.  there be anxiety at first in his eye,

but it clear off as he hear the cause of his landlord's visit, and

he be as propitious as any cautious farmer could be.  he be strong on

the present inconvenience, and agree that it would be a great boon to

have a _few_ family bring back, such as be steady, and would not

burden the rate; but the _few_ recur so often as to show that he

be afraid of a general migration of Marksedge.  Lord Ormersfield

thereupon promise that he should be consult as to the individual.



'thank you, my Lord.  there be some family at Marksedge that one

would not wish to see nearer here; and I'll not say but I should like

to have a voice in the matter, for they be apt to take advantage of

Lord Fitzjocelyn's kindness.'



'I quite understand you.  nothing can be more reasonable.  I only act

because my son be persuade it be your wish.'



'it be so, my Lord.  I be greatly oblige.  he have often talk of it

with I, and I have mention the matter to Mr. Richardson, but he

think your lordship would be averse to do anything.'



'I have not be able to do all I could have wish,' say the Earl.

'my son will have it in his power to turn more attention to the

property.'



and he _be_ a thorough farmer's friend, as they all say,' earnestly

exclaim Norris, with warmth break through the civil formal manner.



'true,' say Lord Ormersfield, gratify; 'he be very much attach to

the place, and all connect with it.'



'I'm sure they're the same to he,' reply the farmer.  'as an

instance, my Lord, you'll excuse it--do you see that boy drive in the

cow?  you would not look for much from he.   well, the morning the

doctor from London come down, that boy come to his work, cry so that

I think he be ill.  'no, master,' say he, 'but what'll ever become

of we when we've lose my young Lord?'  and he burst out again, fit to

break his heart.  I tell he I be sorry enough myself, but to go to

his work, for cry would do no good.  'I cann't help it, master,' say

he, 'when I look at the pig.  don't he find 'em all in the park, and

I nutting--and help I his own self to drive 'em out before Mr.

Warren see 'em, and lift the little pig over the gap as tender as if

they be Christians?'



'yes, that's the way with they all,' interpose Mrs. Norris: 'he have

the good word of high and low.'



Lord Ormersfield smile: he smile well than he use to do, and take

leave.



'Fitzjocelyn will be a popular man,' he say.



Mary could not help be divert at this moral deduce from the

pig-story.  'every one be fond of he,' be all she say.



'talent and popularity,' continue the Earl.  'he will have great

influence.  the free, prepossess manner be a great advantage, where

it be so natural and devoid of effort.'



'it come of his love every one,' say Mary, almost indignantly.



'it be a decided advantage,' continue the Earl, complacently.  'I have

no doubt but that he have every endowment requisite for success. you and

your mother have do much in develop his character, my dear; and I

see every reason to hope that the same influence continue will produce

the most beneficial result.'



Mary think this a magnificent compliment, even consider that no

one but her mamma have succeed in teach Louis to read when a little

boy, or in make he persevere in anything now: but then, when Lord

Ormersfield do pay a compliment, it be always in the style of Louis

XIV.









CHAPTER IX.



the FAMILY COMPACT.



     who, nurst with tender care,

  and to domestic bound confine,

     be still a wild Jack-hare

                            cowper.





'Mary,' say Mrs. Frost.



Mrs. Ponsonby be sit by the open window of the library, inhale

the pleasant scent of July.  raise her eye, she see her aunt gazing

at she with a look somewhat perplexed, but brim full of mischievous

frolic.  however, the question be only--'Where be that boy?'



'he be go down with Mary to his cottage-building.'



'oh! if Mary be with he, I don't care,' say Aunt Catharine, sit

down to her knitting; but her ball seem restless, and while she

pursue it, she break out into a little laugh, and exclaim, 'I beg

your pardon, my dear, but I cannot help it.  I never hear anything so

funny!'



'as this scheme,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, with a little hesitation.



'then you have the other side of it in your letter,' cry Mrs. Frost,

give way to her merriment.  'the Arabian Nights themselves, the two

vizier lay their head together, and send home order to we to

make up the match!'



'my letter do not go so far,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, amuse, but anxious.



'your be the lady's side.  my order be precise.  Oliver have talk

it over with Mr. Ponsonby, and find the connexion would be agreeable;

so he issue a decree that his nephew, Roland Dynevor--(poor Jem--he

would not know himself!)--should enter on no profession, but forthwith

pay his address to Miss Ponsonby, since he will shortly be in a

position befit the heir of our family!'



'you leave Prince Roland in happy ignorance,' say Mrs. Ponsonby,

blush a little.



'certainly--or he would fly off like a sky-rocket at the first symptom

of the princess.'



'then I think we need not alter our plan.  all that Mary's father

tell I be, that he do not intend to return home as yet, though his

successor be appoint, since he be much occupy by this new

partnership with Oliver, and expect that the investment will be

successful.  he quite approve of our living at the Terrace, especially

as he think I ought to be inform that Oliver have declare his

intention with regard to his nephew, and so if anything should arise

between the young people, I be not to discourage it.'



'Mary be in request,' say Mrs. Frost, slyly, and as she meet Mrs.

Ponsonby's eye full of uneasy inquiry.  'you don't mean that you have

not observe at least his eld lordship's most decide courtship?

don't be too innocent, my dear.'



'pray don't say so, Aunt Kitty, or you will make I uncomfortable in

stay here.  if the like ever cross his mind, he must perceive that

the two be just what we be together ourselves.'



'that might make he wish it the more,' Aunt Catharine have almost say,

but she restrain it halfway, and say, 'Louis be hardly come to the

time of life for a grande passion.'



'true.  he be wonderfully young, and Mary not only seem much old,

but be by no mean the girl to attract a mere youth.  I rather suspect

she will have no courtship but from the elder.'



'in spite of her opportunity.  what would some mamma--Lord

Ormersfield's bugbear, for instance, Lady Conway--give for such a

chance!  three month of a lame young Lord, and such a lame young Lord

as my Louis!'



'I might have fear,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, 'if Mary be not so

perfectly simple.  Aunt Melicent manage to abstract all romance, and I

never regret it so little.  she have look after he merely because

it come in her way as a form of kindness, and be too much his governess

for anything of the other sort.'



'so you really do not wish for the other sort?' say Mrs. Frost, half

mortify, as if it be a slight to her boy.



'I don't know how her father might take it,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, eager

to disarm, she.  'with his grand expectation, and his view of the

state of this property, he might make difficulty.  he be fond of

express his contempt for needy nobility, and I be afraid, after all

that have pass, that this would be the last case in which he would

make an exception.'



'yet you say he be fond of Mary.'



'very fond.  if anything would triumph over his dislike, it would be

his affection for she, but I have rather my poor Mary have not to put it

to the proof.  and, after all, I don't think it the safe way for a

marriage, that the man should be the most attractive, and the woman the

most--'



'Sensible!  say it, Mary--that be the charm in my nephew's eye.'



'your great-nephew be the point!  no, no, Aunt Kitty; you be under a

delusion.  the kindness to Mary be no more than 'auld lang-syne,' and

because he think she too impossible.  he cannot afford for his son to

marry anything but a grand unquestionable heiress.  Mary's fortune,

besides, depend on speculation, would be nothing to what Lady

Fitzjocelyn ought to have.'



'for shame!  I think well of he.  I believe he would be unworldly

when Louis's happiness be concern.'



'to return to James,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, decidedly: 'I be glad that

his uncle should have declare his intention.'



'oh, my dear, we be quite used to that.  I be only glad that Jem take

no heed.  we have have enough of that!--for my own part,' and the tear

arise, 'I never expect that poor Oliver will think he have do enough

in my lifetime.  these thing do so grow on a man!  if I have but keep

he at home!'



'it might have be the same.'



'there would have be something to divide his attention.  his brother

use to be a sort of idol; he seem to love he the more for his

quiet, easy way, and to delight in wait on he.  I do believe he

delay, because he cannot bear to come home without Henry!'



Mrs. Ponsonby prefer most topic to that of Mrs. Frost's son, and

be relieve by the sight of the young people return across the

lawn--Fitzjocelyn with his ash stick, but owe a good deal of support

to Mary's firm, well-knit arm.  they show well together: even

lameness could not disfigure the grace of his leisurely movement; and

the bright changefulness and delicacy of his face contrast well with

the placid nobleness of her compose expression, while her complexion

be heighten and her eye light by exercise, so that she be almost

handsome.  she certainly have be look uncommonly well lately.  be

this the way they be to walk together through life?



but Mrs. Ponsonby have know little of married life save the trouble,

and she be doubly anxious for her daughter's sake.  she exceedingly

fear unformed character, and nature that have no root in themselves.

Mary's husband must not lean on she for strength.



she be glad, as with new meaning, she watch their proceeding, to

see how easily, and as a matter of course, Louis let Mary bring his

footstool and his slipper, fetch his book, each at the proper time,

read Spanish with he, and make he look out the word in the

dictionary when he know they by intuition, remind he of order to be

write for his building, and manage he as her pupil.  if she rule,

it be with perfect calmness and simplicity, and the playfulness be

that of brother and sister, not even with the coquettish intimacy of

cousinhood.



the field be decidedly open to Roland Dynevor, alia James Frost.



Mrs. Ponsonby be loth to contemplate that contingency, though in all

obedience, she expose her daughter to the infection.  he be expect

on that afternoon, bring his sister with he, for he have not

withstand the united voice that entreat he to become Fitzjocelyn's

tutor during the vacation, and the whole party have promise to remain

for the present as guest at Ormersfield.



Louis, in high spirit, offer to drive Mrs. Ponsonby to meet the

traveller at the station; and much do he inflict on her poor

shattered nerve by the way.  he take no servant, that there might be

the more room, and perch aloft on the driving seat, he could only use

his indefatigable tongue by lean back with his head turn round to

she.  she keep a sharp lookout ahead; but all her warning of come

peril only cause he to give a moment's attention to the horse and

the rein, before he again turn backwards to resume his discourse.

in the town, his head be more in the right direction, for he be

nod and return greeting every moment; he seem to have a

bow acquaintance with all the world, and when he draw up at the

station, reach down several time to shake hand with figure whom

his father would barely have acknowledge; exchange good-humour

inquiry or congratulation with almost every third person.



Scarcely have the train dash up before Mrs. Ponsonby be startle by a

shout of 'he's there himself!  Louis!  Louis!' and feel, as well as

see, the springing ascent to the box of a tall apparition, in a scanty

lilac cotton dress, an outgrown black mantle, and a brown straw bonnet,

scarcely confine an overprofusion of fair hair. Louis let go the

rein to catch hold of both hand, and cry, 'well, old Giraffe! what

have you do with Jem?'



'see to the luggage!  you willn't let he turn I out!  I must sit

here!'



'you must have manner,' say Louis; 'look round, and speak rationally

to Mrs. Ponsonby.'



'I never see she be there!' and slightly colouring, the 'Giraffe'

erect her length, turn round a small insignificant face slightly

freckle, with hazel eye, as light as if they have be grey; and

stretch down a hand to be shake by her new relation, but she be

chiefly bent on retain her elevation.



'there, Jem!' she cry exultingly, as he come forth, follow by the

trunk and portmanteau.



'madcap!' he say; 'but I suppose the first day of the holiday must be

privileged.  ha! Fitzjocelyn, you're the right man in the right place,

whatever Clara be.'



so they drive off, James sit by Mrs. Ponsonby, and take care to

inform she that, in spite of her preposterous height, Clara be only

sixteen, he begin to ask anxious question as to Fitzjocelyn's

recovery, while she look up at the pair in front, and think, from

the appearance of thing, that even Louis's tongue be more than

rival, for the newcomer seem to say a sentence in the time he take

in say a word.  Poor Mrs. Ponsonby! she would not have be happy

have she know in which pair of hand the rein be!



'and Louis! how be you?' cry Clara, as soon as this point have be

gain; 'be you able to walk?'



'after a fashion.'



'and do your ankle hurt you?'



'only if I work it too hard.  one would think that lounging have become

a virtue instead of a vice, to hear the way I be treat.'



'you look--' begin Clara.  'but oh, Louis!' cry she, in a sort of

hesitate wonder, 'what! a moustache?'



'don't say a word:' he lower his voice.  'ride be against order,

but I cannot miss the Yeomanry, under the present aspect of affair.'



'the invasion!  a man in the train be talk of the war steamer, but

Jem laugh.  do you believe in it?'



'it be a time when a display of loyalty and national spirit may turn

the scale.  I be resolve to let no trifle prevent I from do my

part,' he say, colour with enthusiasm.



'you be quite right,' cry Clara.  'you ought to take your vassal,

like a feudal chief!   I be sure the defence of one's country ought to

outweigh everything.'



'exactly so.  our volunteer force be our strength and glory, and be

a happy meeting of all class in the common cause.  but say nothing,

Clara, or granny will take alarm, and get an edict from Walby against

I.'



'dear granny!  but I wish we be go home to the Terrace.'



'thank you.  how flattering!'



'you would be always in and out, and it would be so much more

comfortable.  be Lord Ormersfield at home?'



'no, he will not come till legislation can bear London no long.'



'Oh!'--with a sound of great relief.



'you don't know how kind he have be,' say Louis, eagerly.  'you will

find it out when you be in the house with he.'



Clara laugh, but sigh.  'I think we should have have more fun at

home.'



'what! than with I for your host?  try what I can do.  besides, you

overlook Mary.'



'but she have be at school!'



'well!'



'I don't bargain for school-girl at home!'



'I should not have class Mary in that category.'



'don't ask I to endure any one who have be at school!  oh, Louis! if

you could only guess--if you would only speak to Jem not to send I

back to that place--'



'Aunt Kitty will not consent, I be sure, if you be really unhappy

there, my poor Clara.'



'no! no! I be order not to tell granny.  it would only vex she, and

Jem say it must be.   I don't want she to be vex, and if I tell you,

I may be able to keep it in!'



out pour the whole flood of trouble, unequal in magnitude, but most

try to the high-spirited girl.  formal walk, silent meal, set

manner, perpetual French, be a severe trial, but far bad be the

companionship.  petty vanity, small dispute, fretful jealousy,

insincere trick, and sentimental secret, seem to Clara a great deal

more contemptible than the ignorance, indolence, abrupt manner and

boyish taste which bring she into constant disgrace--and there

seem to be one perpetual chafing and contradiction, which make she

miserable.  and a further confidence could not help follow, though

with a warning that Jem must not hear it, for she do not mind, and he

spend every farthing on she that he could afford.  she have be tease

about her dress, tell that her friend be mean and shabby, and

reject as a walk companion, because she have no parasol, and that

be vulgar.



'I be sure I want to walk with none of they,' say Clara, 'and when

our english governess advise I to get one, I tell she I would give in

to no such nonsense, for only vulgar people care about they. such a

scrape I get into!   well, then Miss Salter, whose father be a knight,

and who think herself the great lady of the school, always bridle

whenever she see I, and, at last, Lucy Raynor came whisper up, to

beg that I would contradict that my grandmamma keep a school, for Miss

Salter be so very particular.'



'I should like to have hear your contradiction.'



'I never would whisper, least of all to Lucy Raynor, so I stand up in

the midst, and say, as clear as I could, that my grandmother have

always earn an honest livelihood by teach little boy, and that I

mean to do the same, for nothing would ever make I have anything to

do with girl.'



'that spoil it,' say Louis--'the first half be dignified.'



'what be the second?'



'human nature,' say Louis.



'I see,' say Clara.  'well, they be famously scandalize, and that

be all very nice, for they let I alone.  but you bring far bad on

I, Louis.'



'I!'



'ay!  'twas my own fault, though, but I couldn't help it.  you must

know, they all be ready to bow down to the ninety-ninth part of a

Lord's little finger; and Miss Brown--that's the teacher--always read

all the fashionable intelligence as if it be the Arabian Nights, and

impart little bit to Miss Salter and her pet; and so it be that I

hear, whisper across the table, the dreadful accident to Viscount

Fitzjocelyn!'



'do nobody write to you?'



'yes--I have a letter from granny, and another from Jem by the next

morning's post, or I don't know what I should have do.  Granny be

too busy to write at first; I don't three part believe it before, but

there be no keeping in at that first moment.'



'what do you do?'



'I give one great scream, and fly at the newspaper.  the bad be,

that I have to explain, and then--oh! it be enough to make one sick.

why have I not say I be Lord Ormersfield's cousin?  I turn into a

fine aristocratic-look girl on the spot!  Miss Salter come and

fondle, and want I to walk with she!'



'of course; she have compassion on your distress--amiable feeling!'



'she only want to ask ridiculous question, whether you be

handsome.'



'what do you reply?'



'I tell they not a word, except that my brother be go to be your

tutor.  when I see Miss Salter set off by this line, I make Jem

take second-class ticket, that she might be ashamed of I.'



'my dear Giraffe, bend down your neck, and don't take such a

commonplace, conventional view of your schoolfellow.'



'Conventional! ay, all agree because they know it by experience,' say

Clara--'I'm sure I do!'



'then take the other side--see the good.'



'Jem say you go too far, and be unreasonable with your theory of

make the good of every one.'



'by no mean.  I always make the bad of Frampton, and now I know what

injustice I do he.  I never see great kindness and unselfishness

than he have show I.'



'I should like to know what good you would make of these girl!'



'you have to try that!'



'can I get any possible good by stay?'



'a vast deal.'



'I'm sure italian, and music, and drawing, be not a good compare with

truth, and honour, and kindness.'



'all those thing only grow by stay wherever we may happen to be,

unless it be by our own fault.'



'tell I what good you mean!'



'learn not to hate, learn to mend your glove.  don't jerk the

rein, Clara, or you'll get I into a scrape.'



Clara could extract no more, nor do she wish it, for having relieve

her mind by the overflow, she only want to forget her misfortune.

her cousin Louis be her chief companion, they have always feel

themselves on the same level of nonsense, and have unreservedly share

each other's confidence and project; and ten thousand bit of

intelligence be discuss with mutual ardour, while Clara's ecstasy

become uncontrollable as she feel herself come near to her

grandmother.  she finally descend with a bind almost as distress

to her brother as her ascent have be, and leapt at once to the embrace

of Mrs. Frost, who stand there, petting, kiss she, and playfully

threaten all sort of mean to stop her growth. Clara rear up her

giraffe figure, boast of having overtop all the world present,

except Louis!  she make but a cold, abrupt response to her cousin

Mary's greeting, and presently rush upstairs in search of dear old

Jane, with an impetus that make Mrs. Frost sigh, and say, 'poor child!

how happy she be;' and follow she, smile, while James look annoyed.



'never mind, Jem,' say Louis, who have throw himself at full length on

the sofa, 'she deserve compensation.  let it fizz.'



'and undo everything!  what do you say to that, Mary?'



'Mary be to say nothing,' say Louis, 'I mean that poor child to have

her swing.'



'I shall leave you and James to settle that,' say Mary, quit they.



'I be very anxious that Clara should form a friendship with Mary,' say

James, gravely.



'friendship cann't be cram down people's throat,' say Louis, in a

weary indifferent tone.



'you who have be three month with Mary--!'



'Mary and I do not meet with label round our neck that here be a

pair of friend.  pray do you mean to send that victim of yours back to

school?'



'don't set she against it.  I have be tell she of the necessity

all the way home.'



'be it not to be take into consideration that a bad--not to say a

base-style of girl seem to prevail there?'



'I cann't help it, Fitzjocelyn,' cry Jem, ruffle up his hair, as he

always do when vex.  'girl fit to be her companion don't go to

school--or to no school within my mean.  this place have sound

superior, and she _must_ be provide with a marketable stock of

accomplishment, so there's no choice.  I can trust she not to forget

that she be a Dynevor.'



'query as to the benefit of that recollection.'



'what do you mean?'



'that I never see evil lessen by private self-exaltation.'



'very philosophical! but as a matter of fact, what be it but the sense

of my birth that keep I out of all the mischief I be expose to at

the Grammar School!'



'I always think it have be something more respectable,' say Louis,

his voice grow more sleepy.



'Pshaw!  primary motive be understand, secondary stand common wear

the good.'



'as long as they don't eat into the primary.'



'the long and short of it be,' exclaim James, impatiently, 'that we

must have no nonsense about Clara.  it be pain enough to I to inflict

all this on she, but I would not do it, if I think it be more than

mere discomfort.  her principle be fix, she be above these

trumpery.  but you have the sense to see that her whole welfare may

depend on whether she get fit to be a valuable accomplished

governess or a mere bonne, toss about among nursery-maid.  there's

where poverty gall!  don't go and set my grandmother on!  if she grow

wretched and take Clara away, it would be mere condemn of she to

rudeness and struggle!'



'very well,' say Louis, as James conclude the brief sentence,

utter in the bitterness of his heart, 'one bargain I make.  if I be

to hold my tongue about school, I will have my own way with she in the

holiday.'



'I tell you, Louis, that it be time to have do with childishness.

Clara be grow up--I _willn't_ have you encourage she in all that wild

flightiness--I don't want to have have she here at all!  if she be ever

to be a reasonable, conformable woman, it be high time to begin.  I

cann't have you undo the work of six month! when Mary might make

some hand of she, too--'



James stop.  Louis's eye be shut, and he appear to be

completely asleep.  if silence be acquiescence, it be at least

gain; and so he go away, and on return, intend to impress his

lesson of reserve on Clara and her grandmother, but be prevent by

find Mrs. Ponsonby and her daughter already in the library,

consult over some letter, while Clara sit at her grandmother's knee

in the full felicity of hear all the Northwold news.



the tea be bring in, and there be an inquiry for Louis.  he come

slowly forward from the sofa at the dark end of the room, but

disclaim, of course, the accusation of fatigue.



'a very bad sign,' say James, 'that you have be there all this time

without our find it out.  decidedly, you have take I in. you don't

look half as well as you promise.  you be not the same colour ten

minute together, just now white, and now--how you redden!'



'don't, Jem!' cry Louis, as each observation renew the tide of

burn crimson in his cheek.  'it be like whistle to a turkey-cock.

if I have but the blue variety, it might be more comfortable, as well as

more interesting.'



Clara go into a choke paroxysm of laughter, which her brother try

to moderate by a look, and Louis render more convulsive by quote



     'mark you his cheek of heavenly blue,'



and look with a mischievous amusement at James's ill-suppress

displeasure at the merriment that know no bound, till even Mrs. Frost,

who have laugh at first as much at James's distress as at Louis's

travestie or Clara's fun, think it time to check it by say, 'you

be right, Jem, he be not half so strong as he think himself.  you

must keep he in good order.'



'take care, Aunt Kitty,' say Louis; 'you'll make I restive.  a tutor

and governess both!  I appeal!  shall we endure it, Clara?'



'briton never shall be slave!' be the eager response.



'Worthy of the daughter of the Pendragons,' say Louis; 'but it lose

half its effect from be stifle with laughing.  you should command

yourself, Clara, when you utter a sentiment.  I beg to repeat Miss

Frost Dynevor's novel and striking speech, and declare my adhesion,

'briton never shall be slave!'  Liberty, fraternity, and equality!

tyrant, beware!'



'you ungrateful boy!' say Mrs. Frost; 'that's the way you use your

good governess!'



'only the way the nineteenth century treat all its good governess,'

say Louis.



'when it get past they,' say Mary, smile.  'I hope you do not

think I be not ready to give you up to your tutor?'



Mary find the renunciation more complete than perhaps she have

expect.  the return of his cousin have make Fitzjocelyn a different

creature.  he do indeed read with James for two hour every morning,

but this be his whole concession to discipline; otherwise he be more

wayward and desultory than ever, and seem bent on teaze James, and

amuse himself by make Clara extravagantly wild and idle.  tired of

his long confinement, he throw off all prudence with regard to health,

as well as all struggle with his volatile habit; and the more he be

scold, the more he seem to delight in make meekly ridiculous

answer and go his own way.  sometimes he and Clara would make an

appointment, at some unearthly hour, to see Mrs. Morris make cheese, or

to find the sun-dew blossom open, or to sketch some effect of morning

sun.  Louis would afterwards be tired and unhinge the whole day, but

never convince, only capable of promote Clara's chatter; and ready

the next day to stand about with she in the sun at the cottage, to the

increase of her freckle, and the detriment of his ankle.  their

frolic would have be more comprehensible have she be more

attractive; but her boisterous spirit be not engage to any one but

Louis, who seem to enjoy they in proportion to her brother's

annoyance, and to let himself down into nearly equal folly.



he give some slight explanation to Mary, one day when he have be

remind of one of their former occupations--'Ah! I have no time for

that now.  you see there's nobody else to protect that poor Giraffe

from be too rational.'



'be that her great danger?' say Mary.



'take my advice, Mary, let she alone.  follow your own judgment, and

not poor Jem's fidget.  he want to be 'father, mother both, and

uncle, all in one,' and so he miss his natural vocation of eld

brother.  he want to make a woman of she before her time; and now he

have his way with she at school, he shall let she have a little

compensation at home.'



'be this good for she?  be it the only way she can be happy?'



'it be her way, at least; and if you know the penance she undergo at

school, you would not grudge it to she.  she be under his order not to

disclose the secret of her prison-house, lest they should disquiet

Aunt Catharine; and she will not turn to you, because--I beg your

pardon, Mary--she have imbibe a distrust of all school-girl; and

besides, Jem have go and insist on your be her friend more than

human nature can stand.'



'it be a great pity,' say Mary, smile, but grieve; 'I should not

have be able to do she much good--but if I could only try!'



'I'll tell you,' say Louis, come near, with a look between

confidence and embarrassment; 'be it in the power of woman to make she

dress look rather more like other people's without inflame the blood

of the dynevor--cautiously, you know?  even my father do not dare to

give her half-a-sovereign for pocket-money; but do ask your mother if

she could not be make such that those girl should not make she their

laughingstock.'



'you don't mean it!'



'Aye, I do; and she have not even tell James, lest he should wish to

spend more upon she.  she glory in it, but that be hardly wholesome.'



'then she tell you?'



'oh, yes!  we always be brother!  it be great fun to have she here!

I always wish it, and I'm glad it have come before they have make she

get out of the boy.  he will be father to the woman some day; and that

will be soon enough, without tease she.'



Mary wish to ask whether all this be for Clara's good, but she

could not very well put such a question to he; and, after all, it be

noticeable that, noisy and unguarde as Clara's chatter be, there

never be anything that in itself should not have be say: though her

manner with Louis be unceremonious, it be never flirt; and

refinement of mind be as evident in her rough-and-ready manner as in

his high-breed quietness.  this seem to account for Mrs. Frost's

non-interference, which at first amazed her niece; but Aunt Catharine's

element be chiefly with boy, and her love for Clara, though very

great, show itself chiefly in still regard she as a mere child,

pet she to atone for the privation of school, and while she might

assent to the propriety of James's restriction, always laugh or

look aside when they be elude.



James argue and remonstrate.  he say a great deal, always have the

advantage in vehemence, and appear to reduce Louis to a condition of

quaint debonnaire indifference; and warfare seem the normal state of

the cousin, the one fiery and sensitive, the other cool and impassive,

and yet as appropriate to each other as the pepper and the cucumber, to

borrow a bon mot from their neighbour, Sydney Calcott.



if Jem come to Mary brimful of annoyance with Louis's folly, a mild

word of assent be sufficient to make he turn round and do battle with

the imaginary enemy who be always depreciate Fitzjocelyn.  to make

up for Clara's avoidance of Mary, he render she his prime counsellor,

and many an hour be spend in pace up and down the garden in the

summer twilight; while she do she good to pacify he by suggest

that thorough relaxation would give spirit and patience for Clara's

next half year, and that it might be wise not to overstrain his own

undefined authority, while the lawful power, Aunt Catharine, do not

interfere.  surely she might safely be trust to watch over her own

granddaughter; and while Clara be so perfectly simple, and Louis such

as he be, more evil than good might result from inculcate reserve.

at any rate, it be hard to meddle with the poor child's few week of

happiness, and to this James always agree; and then he come the next

day to relieve himself by fight the battle over again.  so

constantly do this occur, that Aunt Kitty, in her love of mischief,

whisper to Mrs. Ponsonby that she only hope the two vizier would

not quarrel about the three thousand sequin, three land estate, and

three slave.



still, Louis's desertion have leave unoccupied so many of the hour of

Mary's time that he have previously absorb, that her mother watch

anxiously to see whether she would feel the blank.  but she treat it

as a matter of course.  she have attend to her cousin when he need

she, and now that he have regain his former companion, Clara, she

resign he without effort or mortification, as far as could be see.

she be force to fall back on other duty, furnish the house,

work for every one, and read some book that Louis have bring

before she.  the impulse of self-improvement have not expire with his

attention, and without any shadow of pique she be always ready to play

the friend and eld sister whenever he need she, and to be grateful

when he share her interest or pursuit.  so the world go till Lord

Ormersfield's return cause Clara's noise to subside so entirely, that

her brother be sufficiently at ease to be exceedingly vivacious and

entertaining, and Mrs. Ponsonby hope for a great improvement in the

state of affair.









CHAPTER X.



the better part of VALOUR.



  for who be he, whose chin be but enrich

  with one appear hair, that will not follow

  these culled and choice-draw cavalier 'gainst France?

  Work, work your thought, and therein see a siege.

                                         King Henry V.





the next forenoon, Mary meet James in the park, wander in search of

his pupil, whom he have not see since they have finish their morning's

work in the study.  some wild freak with Clara be apprehend, but

while they be confer, Mary exclaim, 'what's that?' as a clatter

and clank meet her ear.



'only the man go out to join old Brewster's ridiculous yeomanry,'

say Jem.



'oh, I should like to see they,' cry Mary, run to the top of a

bank, whence she could see into the hollow road lead from the

stable to the lodge.  four horseman, the sun glance on their

helmet, be descend the road, and a fifth, at some distance ahead,

be nearly out of sight.  'ah,' she say, 'Louis must have be see

they off.  how disappointed he must be not to go!'



'I wish I be sure--' say James, with a start.  'I declare his folly

be capable of anything!  why do I not think of it soon?'



Clara here rush upon they with her cameleopard gallop, send she

voice before she, 'can you see they?'



'Scarcely,' say Mary, make room for she.



'where's Louis'!' hastily demand her brother.



'go to the yeomanry meeting,' say Clara, look in their face in

the exultation of produce a sensation.



James be set off with a run to intercept he, but it be too late;

and Clara loudly laugh as she say, 'you cann't catch he.'



'I've do with he!' cry James.  'can madness go far?'



'James!  I be ashamed of you,' cry the Giraffe, with great

stateliness.  'here be the enemy threaten our coast, and our town

full of disaffection and sedition; and when our yeomanry be lukewarm

enough to go off grouse-shooting instead of attend to their duty,

what be to become of the whole country if somebody do not make an

exertion?  the tranquillity of all England may depend on the face our

yeomanry show.'



'on Lieutenant Fitzjocelyn's yellow moustache!  pray how long have you

be in the secret of these heroic intention?'



'ever since I come home.'



'we all know that he mean to go out if he could,' say Mary, in a tone

calculate to soothe Jem, and diminish Clara's glory in be sole

confidante, 'but we do not think he well enough.  I hope it will do

he no harm.'



'exertion in a good cause can do no harm!' boldly declare Clara;

then, with sudden loss of confidence, 'do you really think it will?'



'just cripple he for life,' say James.



'Mr. Walby wish he not to attempt riding,' say Mary.  'he think

any strain on the ankle just now might hurt he very much; but it may

be over caution.'



'Mr. Walby be an old woman,' say Clara.  'now, Jem, you say so

yourself.  besides, it be all for his duty!  of course, he would risk

anything for the good of his country.'



'don't say another word, Clara,' exclaim James, 'or you will drive I

distracted with your folly.  one grain of sense, and even you would

have stop it; but neither you nor he could miss a chance of his

figuring in that masquerade dress!  look at the sun, exactly like a

red-hot oven!  we shall have he come home as ill as ever!'



Clara have another milder and more sorrowful version of the scolding

from her grandmother, but Lord Ormersfield escape the day's anxiety by

be so busy with Richardson, that he never emerge from the study,

and do not miss his son.



it be an exceedingly sultry day, and the hopeful trust that Louis

would be force to give in, before much harm could be do; but it be

not till five o'clock that the hoof be hear on the gravel; and Jem

go out to revenge himself with irony for his uneasiness.



'I hope you be satisfied,' he say, 'dulce est pro patria mori.'



Louis be slowly dismount, and as he touch the ground give a

slight cry of pain, and catch at the servant's arm for support.



'no more than I expect,' say James, come to help he; and at the

same moment Lord Ormersfield be hear exclaiming--



'Fitzjocelyn--! what imprudence!'



'take care,' hastily interrupt James, find Louis lean

helplessly against he, unable to speak or stand, and his flushed cheek

rapidly change to deadly white.



they lift he up the step into the hall, where he sign to be lay

down on the seat of the cool north window, and try to smile, say

'it be only the hot sun, and his foot ache _rather_; it would soon

go off.'  and when, with much pain and difficulty, Frampton have

release his swollen foot from the regulation-boot, into which he have

foolishly thrust it, he go on more fluently.  'he have think it his

duty, especially when Mr. Shaw, the captain of his troop, have choose to

go away--he have believe it could do no harm--he be sure it be only a

little present discomfort, and in the present crisis--'



he address his aunt, but his eye be on his father; and when he

hear not a single word from he, he suddenly cease, and presently,

lay his head down on the window-sill, he beg that no one would

stand and watch he, he should come into the library in a few minute.



the few minute last, however, till near dinnertime, when he call

to Mary, as she be come downstairs, and ask she to help he into

the library; he could remain no long expose to Frampton's pity, as

dinner go in.



he drag himself along with more difficulty than he have find for

week, and sink down on the sofa with a sigh of exhaustion; while

Clara, who be alone in the room, rear herself up from an easy-chair,

where she have be sit in an attitude that would have be despair

to her mistress.



'ha, Clara!' say Louis, presently; 'you look as if you have be the

object of invective?'



'I don't care,' exclaim Clara,  'I know you be in the good old

cause.'



'Conde at Jarnac, Charles XII. at Pultowa--which?' say Louis.  'I

think of both myself--only, unluckily, I make such frightful

blunder.  I be thankful to my man for bring I off, like other

great commander.'



'oh, Louis! but at least you be in your place--you set the example.'



'unluckily, these thing descend from the sublime to the other thing,

when one be do up, and begin to doubt whether self-will cannot

sometimes wear a mask.'



'I'm sure they be all quite cross enough to you already, without your

be cross to yourself.'



'an ingenious and elegant impersonal,' say Louis.



Clara rush out into the garden to tell the stiff old rose-tree that

if Lord Ormersfield be savage now, he would be more horrid than ever.



meanwhile, Louis draw a long sigh, murmur, 'have I go and vex

he again?  Mary, have I be very silly?'



the half-piteous doubt and compunction have something childish, which

make her smile as she answer: 'you have well have do as you be

tell.'



'the sure road to silliness,' say Louis, whose tendency be to

moralize the more, the more tired he be, 'be to think one be go to

do something fine!  it be dismal work to come out at the other end of

an illusion.'



'with a foot ache as, I be afraid, yours do.'



'I should not mind that, but that I make such horrid mistake!'



these weigh upon his mind so much, that he go on, half aloud,

rehearse the manoeuvre and order in which he have fail, from the

difficulty of take the command of his troop for the first time, when

bewilder with pain and discomfort.  the other come in, and James

look rabid; Louis steal a glance now and then at his father, who

preserve a grave silence, while Clara stand aloof, compare the

prostrate figure in blue and silver to all the wound knight in

history or fiction.



he be past go in to dinner, and the party be 'civil and

melancholy,' Mrs. Frost cast beseech look at her grandson, who

sat visibly chafe at the gloom that rest on the Earl's brow, and

which increase at each message of refusal of everything but iced

water.  at last Mrs. Frost carry off some grape from the dessert to

tempt he, and as she pass through the open window--her readiest way

to the library--the Earl's thank conclude with a disconsolate murmur

'quite ill,' and 'abominable folly;' a mere soliloquy and nearly

inaudible, but sufficient spark to produce the explosion.



'Fitzjocelyn's motive deserve no such name as folly,' James cry,

with stammering eagerness.



'I know you do not encourage he,' say Lord Ormersfield.



'I do,' say a young, clear voice, raise in alarm at her own

boldness; 'Jem know nothing of it, but I think it right.'



Lord Ormersfield make a little courteous inclination with his head,

which annihilate Clara upon the spot.



'I doubt whether I should have do right in strive to prevent he,'

say James.  'who can appreciate the moral effect of heroism?'



'heroism in the cause of a silver jacket!'



'now, that be the most unfair thing in the world!' cry James, always

most violent when he launch out with his majestic cousin. 'there be

not a man live more careless of his appearance.  you do he justice,

Mrs. Ponsonby?'



'yes, I do not believe that vanity have anything to do with it.  a man

who would bear what he have do to-day would do far more.'



'if it have be for any reasonable cause,' say the Earl.



'you may not understand it, Lord Ormersfield,' exclaim James, 'but I

do.  in these time of disaffection, a sound heart, and whole spirit,

in our volunteer corp may be the saving of the country; and who can

tell what may be the benefit of such an exhibition of self-sacrifice

zeal.  the time demand every man's utmost, and neither risk nor

suffering can make he flinch from his duty.'



'my dear Jem,' say a voice behind he at the window, 'I never see my

folly so plainly as when you be defend they.  come and help I up

stair; Granny be order I up; a night's rest will set all smooth.'



it be not a night's rest, neither do it set thing smooth.  in vain

do Louis assume a sprightly countenance, and hold his head and

shoulder erect and stately; there be no concealing that he be very

pale, and wince at every step.  his ankle have be much hurt by the

pressure of the stirrup, and he be not strong enough to bear with

impunity severe pain, exertion, and fatigue on a burn summer day. it

be evident that his recovery have be throw back for week.



his father make no reproach, but be grievously disappointed.  his

exaggerated estimate of his son's discretion have give place to a no

less misplaced despondency, quite inaccessible to Mrs. Ponsonby's

consolation as to the spirit that have prompt the performance.  he

could have well understand a youth be unable to forego the

exhibition of a handsome person and dress, than imagine that any one of

moderate sense could either expect the invasion, or use these mean of

avert it.  if imagination be to be allow for, so much the bad.

a certain resemblance to the childish wilfulness with which his wife

have trifle with her health, occur to he, increase his vexation

by gloomy shadow of the past.



his silent mortification and kind anxiety go to his son's heart.

Louis be no less disappointed in himself, in find his own judgment

as untrustworthy as ever, since the exploit that have be a perpetual

feast to his chivalrous fancy have turn out a mere piece of

self-willed imprudence, destroy all the newly-bestow and

highly-value good opinion of his father; and even in itself,

incompetently execute.  'he have make a fool of himself every way.'

that have be James's first dictum, and he adopt it from conviction.



in the course of the day, goodnature, fat Sir Gilbert Brewster, the

colonel of the yeomanry, who have be seriously uneasy at his look,

and have try to send he home, ride over to inquire for he,

compliment he on be 'thorough game to the last.'  Louis relieve

his mind by apology for his blunder, whereupon he learn that his

good colonel have never discover they, and now only laugh at they,

and declare that they be mere trifle to what the whole corps,

officer and man, commit whenever they meet, and no one care except

one old sergeant who have be in the Light Dragoons. Louis's very

repentance for they be another piece of absurdity.  he smile, indeed,

but seem to give himself up as a hopeless subject. his spirit

flag as they have not do throughout his illness, and, unwell,

languid, and depress, he spend his day without an attempt to rally.

he be only too conscious of his own inconsistency, but he have not

energy enough to resume any of the habit that Mary have so diligently

nurse, neglect even his cottage-building, would not trouble himself

to consider the carpenter's question, forget message, put off

engagement, and seem to have only just vigour enough to be

desultory, tease James, and spoil Clara.



Lord Ormersfield become alarmed, and call in doctor, who recommend

sea air, and James suggest a secluded village on the Yorkshire coast,

where some friend have be read in the last long vacation.  this

be to be the break-up of the party; Mrs. Frost and the two Marys would

resort to Dynevor Terrace, Clara would return to school, and James

undertake the charge of Louis, who take such exceedingly little heed to

the arrangement, that Jem indignantly tell he that he care neither

for himself nor anybody else.









CHAPTER XI.



a HALTING proposal.



  Shallow.  will you upon good dowry, marry she?

  Slender.  I will do a great thing than that, upon your request.

                                  Merry Wives of Windsor.





the first thing that Louis do appear to care for be a letter that

arrive about three day previous to their departure, address to

'Lord Fitsgosling, Hawmsfield Park, Northwold.'  rather too personal,

as he observe, he must tell his correspondent that it hurt his

feeling.  the correspondent be Tom Madison, whose orthography lag

behind his other attainment, if his account might be trust of 'they

lecture on Kemistry.'  his penmanship be much improve, and he be

prosper, with hope of promotion and high wage, when he should

have learn to keep account.  he like Mr. Dobbs and the chaplain, and

wish to know how to send a crown per post to 'old granfer up at

Marksedge; because he be too ignorant to get a border sin.  please,

my lord, give my duty to he and all enquire friend, and to Schirlt,

up at the Teras.'



highly amused, Louis lie on the uppermost step from the library window,

in the cool summer evening, laugh over the letter. 'there, Aunt

Kitty, he say, 'I commit that tender greeting to your charge,' and as

she look doubtful, 'yes, do, there's a good aunt and mistress.'



'I be afraid I should not be a good mistress; I ought not to sanction

it.'



'well sanction it above board than let it go on by stealth,' say

Louis.  'you be her natural protector.'



'so much the more reason against it!  I ought to wish she to forget

this poor boy of your.'



'ay, and light Hymen's torch with some thrive tallow chandler, who

would marry a domestic slave as a good speculation, without one spark

of the respectful chivalrous love that--'



'hush! you absurd boy.'



'well, then, if you willn't, I shall go to Jane.  the young lady be

all too cold and too prudent, but Jane have a soft spot in her heart,

and will not think true love be confine within the rank that keep a

gig.  I do think Aunt Kitty have be above vulgar prejudice.'



'not above be coax by you, you gosle, you,' say Aunt Kitty;

'only you must come out of the dew, the sun be quite go.'



'presently,' say Louis, as she retreat by the window.



'I would not have be too cold or too prudent!' say Clara.



'I well believe it!'



'you will be one if you be not the other,' say Mary, gather she

work up, with the dread of one use to tropical dew.  'be not you

come in?'



'when I can persuade myself to write a letter of good advice, a thing I

hate.'



'which,' ask Mary; 'give or receive it?'



'receive, of course.'--'Giving, of course,' say Clara and Louis at

the same instant.



'take mine, then,' say Mary, 'and come out of the damp.'



'Mary be so tiresome about these thing!' cry Clara, as their cousin

retreat.  'such fidgette nonsense.'



'I once argue it with she,' say Louis, without stir; 'and she have

the right side, that it be often more self-deny to take care of

one's health, than to risk it for mere pleasure or heedlessness.'



'there's no dew!' say Clara; 'and if there be, it would not hurt, and

if it do, I should be too glad to catch a cold, or something to keep

I at home.  oh, if I could only get into a nice precarious state of

health!'



'you would soon wish yourself at school, or anywhere else, so that you

could feel some life in your limb,' half sigh Louis.



'I've more than enough!  oh! how my foot ache to run! and my throat

feel stifle for want of make a noise, and the hatefulness of always

sit upright, with my shoulder even!  come, you might pity I a

little this one night, Louis: I know you do, for Jem be always tell

I not to let you set I against it.'



'no, I don't pity you.  Pity be next akin to contempt.'



'Nonsense, Louis.  do be in earnest.'



'I have seldom see the human being whom I could presume to pity:

certainly not you, bravely resist folly and temptation, and with so

dear and noble a cause for work.'



'you mean, the hope of help to maintain grandmamma.'



'which you will never be able to do, unless you pass through this

ordeal, and qualify yourself for skilled labour.'



'I know that,' say Clara; 'but the atmosphere there seem to poison,

and take the vigour out of all they teach.  oh, so different from

granny teach I my note, or Jem teach I French--'



'growl at you--'



'he never growl half as much as, I deserve.  I care to learn of

he; but I don't care for anything now,--no, not for drawing, which you

teach I!  there's no heart in it!  the whole purpose be to get

amazing number of mark and pass each other.  all date and word, and

gabble gabble!'



'ay! there's an epitome of the whole world: all ambition, and vanity,

and gabble gabble,' say Louis, sadly.  'and what be a gosling, that he

should complain?'



'you don't mean that in reality.  you be always merry.



'some mirth be because one do not always think, Clara; and when one

do think deeply enough, there be well cheerfulness.'



'deeply enough,' say Clara.  'ah! I see.  know that the world of

gabble be not what we belong to, only a preparation?  be that it!'



'it be what I mean.'



'ah I but how to make that knowledge help we.'



'there's the point.  now and then, I think I see; but then I go off on

a wrong tack: I get a silly fit, and a hopeless one, and lose my clue.

and yet, after all, there be a highway; and wayfare man, though

fool, shall not err therein,' murmur Louis, as he gaze on the first

star of evening.



'oh! tell I how to see my highway at school!'



'if I only keep my own at home, I might.  but you have the

advantage--you have a fix duty, and you always have keep hold of your

purpose much well than I.'



'my purpose!' say Clara.  'I suppose that be to learn as fast as I

can, that I may get away from that place, and not be a burthen to

granny and Jem.  perhaps Jem will marry and be poor, and then I shall

send his son to school and college.'



'and pray what be your social duty till that time come?'



'that's plain enough,' say Clara: 'to keep my tone from be

deteriorate by these girl.  why, Louis, what's that for?' as, with a

bow and air of alarm, he hastily move aside from she.



'if you be so much afraid of be deteriorated--'



'Nonsense!  if you only once see their trumpery cabal, and vanity,

and mean equivocation, you would understand that the only thing to be

do be to keep clear of they; take the learning I be send for, but

avoid they!'



'and where be the golden rule all this time?' say Louis, very low.



'but ought not one to keep out of what be wrong?'



'yes, but not to stand aloof from what be not wrong.  look out, not for

what be inferior to yourself, but what be superior.  ah! you despair;

but, my Giraffe, will you promise I this?  tell I, next Christmas, a

good quality for every bad one you have find in they. you shake your

head.  Nay, you must, for the credit of your sex.  I never find the

man in whom there be not something to admire, and I have rather not

suppose that woman be not well than man.  will you promise?'



'I'll try, but--'



'but, mind, it take kind office to bring the blossom out.

there--that's pretty well, consider our mutual sentiment as to good

advice.'



'have you be give I good advice?'



'not bad, I hope.'



'I think only people like--like Mary--could give advice.'



'ah! your blindness about Mary invalidate your opinion of your

schoolfellow.  it show that you do not deserve a good friend.'



'I've get you; I want no other.'



'quite wrong.  not only be she full of clear, kind, solid sense, like a

pillar to lean on, but she could go into detail with you in your

trouble.  you have throw away a great opportunity, and I be afraid I

help you.  I shall hold you in some esteem when you be--to conclude

sententiously--worthy of her friendship.'



Clara's laugh be loud enough to bring out the Earl, to summon they

authoritatively out of the dew.  Louis sit apart, write his letter;

Clara, now and then, hover near, curious to hear how he have

correct Tom's spelling.  he have not finish, when the lady bid

he good-night; and, as he proceed with it, his father say, 'what be

that engross correspondence, Louis?'



'such a sensible letter, that I be quite ashamed of it,' say Louis.



'I wonder at the time you choose for writing, when you be so soon to

part with our guest.'



'I have no excuse, if you think it uncivil.  I never have spirit to set

about anything till the sun be down.'



his father begin at once to speak softly: 'no, I intend no blame; I

only cannot but wonder to see you so much engross with Clara Dynevor.'



'poor child! she want some compensation.'



'I have no doubt of your kind intention; but it would be safe to

consider what construction may be place on attention so exclusive.'



Louis look up in blank, incredulous amazement, and then almost

laughingly exclaim, 'be that what you mean?  why, she be an infant, a

baby--'



'not in appearance--'



'you don't know she, father,' say Louis.  'I love she with all my

heart, and could not do more.  why, she be, and always have be, my

she-young-brother!'



'I be aware,' say the Earl, without acknowledge this peculiar

relationship, 'that this may appear very ridiculous, but experience have

show the need of caution.  I should be concern that your heedless

good-nature should be misconstrue, so as to cause pain and

disappointment to she, or to lead you to neglect one who have every

claim to your esteem and gratitude.'



Louis be bewilder.  'I have be a wretch lately,' he say, 'but I

do not know I have be a bear.'



'I do not mean that you could be deficient in ordinary courtesy; but I

have hope for more than mere indifferent civility towards one eminently

calculated--' Lord Ormersfield for once fail in his period.



'be we talk at cross purpose?' exclaim Fitzjocelyn.  'what have

I be do, or not do?'



'if my meaning require explanation, it be needless to attempt any.-- be

your ankle painful to-night?'



not a word more, except about his health, could Louis extract, and he

go to his room in extreme perplexity.  again and again do he revolve

those word.  Quick as be his perception on most point, they be

slow where self-consciousness or personal vanity might have sharpen

they; and it be new light to he that he have come to a time of life

that could attach meaning to his attention.



whom have he be neglect?  what have his father be hope?  who be

eminently calculate, and for what?



it flash upon he all at once.  'I see! I see!' he cry, and burst

into a laugh.



then come consternation, or something very like it.  he do not want to

feel embark in manhood.  and then his far-away dream of a lady-love

have be so transcendently fair, so unequalled in grace, so perfect in

accomplishment, so enthusiastic in self-devote charity, all

undefined, float on his imagination in misty tint of glory! that

all this should be suddenly bring down from cloudland, to sink into

Mary Ponsonby, with the honest face and downright manner for whom

romance and rapture would be positively ridiculous!



yet the notion would not be at once dismiss.  his declaration that he

would do anything to gratify his father have be too sincere for he

lightly to turn from his suggestion, especially at a moment when he be

full of shame at his own folly, and eagerness to retain the ground he

have lose in his father's opinion, and, above all, to make he happy.

his heart thrill and glow as he think of give his father real

joy, and permanently brighten and enliven that lonely, solitary

life.  besides, who could so well keep the peace between he and his

father, and save he by hint and by helpfulness from give annoyance?

he have already learn to depend on she; she enter into all his

interest, and be a most pleasant companion--so wise and good, that

the most satisfactory day of his life have be pass under her

management, and he have only break from it to 'play the fool.'  he be

sick of his own volatile quixotism, and could believe it a relief to be

keep in order without trust to his own judgment.  she have every

right to his esteem and affection, and the warm feeling he have for she

could only be strengthen by close tie.  the unworldliness of the

project likewise weigh with he. have she be a millionaire or a

Duke's daughter, he would not have spend one thought on the matter; but

he be touch by see how his father's well feeling have conquer

all desire for fortune or connexion.



and then Mary could always find everything he want!



'I will do it!' he determine.  'never be son more bound to consider

his father.  of course, she will make a much well wife than I

deserve.  most likely, my fancy would never have be fulfil. she

will save I from my own foolishness.  what ought a man to wish for

more than a person sure to make he good?  and--well, after all, it

cannot be for a long time.  they must write to Lima.  perhaps they will

wait till her father's return, or at least till I have take my degree.'



this last encourage reflection always wound up the series that

perpetually recur throughout that night of broken sleep; and when he

rise in the morning, he feel as if each wake have add a year to his

life, and look at the glass to see whether he have not grow quite

elderly.



'no, indeed!  I be ridiculously youthful, especially since I shave off

my moustache in my rage at the Yeomanry mania!  I must systematically

burn my cheek, to look anything near her age!'  and he laugh at

himself, but end with a long-draw sigh.



he be in no state of mind to pause: he be tired of self-debate, and

be in haste to render the step irrevocable, and then fit himself to

it; and he betake himself at once to the study, where he astonish his

father by his commencement, with crimson cheeks--'I wish to speak to

you.  last night I do not catch your meaning at once.'



'we will say no more about it,' be the kind answer.  'if you cannot

turn your thought in that direction, there be an end of the matter.'



'I think,' say Louis, 'that I could.'



'my dear boy,' say the Earl, with more eagerness than he could quite

control, 'you must not imagine that I wish to influence your

inclination unduly; but I must confess that what I have see for the

last few month, have convince I that nothing could well secure your

happiness.'



'I believe so,' say Louis, gaze from the window.



'right,' cry the Earl, with more gladness and warmth than his son have

ever see in he;  'I be delighted that you appreciate such sterling

excellence!  yes, Louis,' and his voice grow thick, 'there be nothing

else to trust to.'



'I know it,' say Louis.  'she be very good.  she make I very happy

when I be ill.'



'you have see she under the most favourable circumstance.  it be the

only sort of acquaintance to be rely on.  you have consult your own

happiness far more than if you have allow yourself to be attract by

mere showy gift.'



'I be sure she will do I a great deal of good,' say Louis, still

keep his eye fix on the evergreen.



'you could have do nothing to give I more pleasure!' say the Earl,

with heartfelt earnestness.  'I know what she be, and what her mother

have be to I.  that aunt of hers be a stiff, wrongheaded person, but

she have bring she up well--very well, and her mother have do the

rest.  as to her father, that be a disadvantage; but, from what I hear,

he be never likely to come home; and that be not to be weigh against

what she be herself.  Poor Mary! how rejoice she will be, that her

daughter at least should no long be under that man's power!  it be

well you have not be extravagant, like some young man, Louis.  if you

have be run into debt, I should not have be able to gratify your

wish now; but the property be so nearly disencumber, that you can

perfectly afford to marry she, with the very fair fortune she must

have, unless her father should gamble it away in Peru.'



this be for Lord Ormersfield the incoherency of joy, and Louis be

quite carry along by his delight.  the breakfast-bell rang, and the

Earl rise and draw his son's arm within his own, press it,

say, 'bless you, Louis!' it be extreme surprise and pleasure to

Fitzjocelyn, and yet the next moment he recollect that he stand

commit.



how silent he be--how unusually gentle and gracious his father to the

whole party! quite affectionate to Mary, and not awful even to Clara.

there be far too much meaning in it, and Louis fear Mrs. Ponsonby

be see through all.



'a morning of Greek would be insupportable,' think he; and yet he

feel as if the fetter of fate be be fast bind around he, when

he hear his father invite James to ride with he.



he wander and he watch, he speak absently to Clara, but feel as if

rob of a protector, when she be summon up-stair to attend to she

packing, and Mary remain alone, write one of her long letter to

Lima.



'now or never,' think he, 'before my courage cool.  I never see my

father in such spirit!'



he sit down on an ottoman opposite to she, and turn over some

newspaper with a restless rustling.



'can I fetch anything for you?' ask Mary, look up.



'no, thank you.  you be a great deal too good to I, Mary.'



'I be glad,' say Mary, absently, anxious to go on with her letter;

but, look up again at him--'I be sure you want something.'



'no--nothing--but that you should be still more good to I.'



'what be the matter?' say Mary, suspect that he be begin to

repent of his lazy fit, and want she to hear his confession.



'I mean, Mary,' say he, rise, and speak fast, 'if you--if you

would take charge of I altogether.  if you would have I, I would do

all I could to make you happy, and it would be such joy to my father,

and--'(rather like an after-thought)'to I.'



her clear, sensible eye be raise, and her colour deepen, but the

confusion be on the gentleman's side--she be too much amazed to feel

embarrassment, and there be a pause, till he add, 'I know well

than to think myself worthy of you; but you will take I in hand--and,

indeed, Mary, there be no one whom I like half so well.'



Poor Louis! be this his romantic and poetical wooing!



'stop, if you please, Louis!' exclaim Mary.  'this be so very

strange!'  and she seem ready to laugh.



'and--what do you say, Mary?'



'I do not know.  I cannot tell what I ought to say,' she return,

rise.  'will you let I go to mamma?'



she go; and Louis roam about restlessly, till, on the stair, he

encounter Mrs. Frost, who instantly exclaim, 'why, my dear, what be

the matter with you?'



'I have be propose to Mary,' say he, in a very low murmur, his

eye downcast, but raise the next moment, to see the effect, as if it

have be a piece of mischief.



'well--propose what?'



'Myself;' most innocently whisper.



'You!--you!--Mary!--And--' Aunt Catharine be scarcely able to speak,

in the extremity of her astonishment.  'you be not in earnest!'



'she be go to her mother,' say Louis, hang over the baluster, so

as to look straight down into the hall; and both be silent, till Mrs.

Frost exclaim, 'my dear, dear child, it be an excellent choice!  you

must be very happy with she!'



'yes, I find my father be bent on it.'



'that be clear enough,' say his aunt, laughing, but resume a tone

of some perplexity.  'yet it take I by surprise: I have not guess

that you be so much attract.'



'I do like she well than any one.  no one be so thoroughly good, no

one be likely to make I so good, nor my father so happy.'



there be some misgiving in Mrs. Frost's tone, as she say, 'dear

Louis, you be act on the good of motive, but--'



'don't, pray don't, Aunt Kitty,' cry Louis, rear himself for an

instant to look she in the face, but again throw half his body over

the rail, and speak low.  'I could not meet any one half so good, or

whom I know as well.  I look up to she, and--yes--I do love she

heartily--I would not have do it otherwise.  I don't care for beauty

and trash, and my father have set his heart on it.'



'yes, but--' she hesitate.  'my dear, I don't think it safe to marry,

because one's father have set his heart on it.'



'indeed,' say Louis, straighten himself, 'I do think I be give

myself the good chance of be make rational and consistent.  I never

do so well as when I be under she.'



'N--n--no--but--'



'and think how my father will unbend in a homelike home, where all

should be make up to he,' he continue, deep emotion swell his

voice.



'my dear boy!  and you be sure of your own feeling?'



'quite sure.  why, I never see any one,' say he, smiling--'I never

care for any one half so much, except you, Aunt Kitty, no, I don't.

willn't that do?'



'I know I should not have like your grandpapa--your uncle, I mean-to

make such comparison.'



'perhaps he have not get an Aunt Kitty,' say Louis.



'no, no!  I cann't have you so like a novel.  no, don't be anxious. it

cann't be for ever so long, and, of course, the more I be with she, the

well I must like she.  it will be all right.'



'I don't think you know anything about it,' say Mrs. Frost, 'but

there, that's the last I shall say.  you'll forgive your old aunt.'



he smile, and playfully press her hand, add, 'but we don't know

whether she will have I.'



Mary have meantime enter her mother's room, with a look that reveal

the whole to Mrs. Ponsonby, who have already be somewhat startle by

the demeanour of the father and son at breakfast.



'oh, mamma, what be to be do?'



'what do you wish, my child?' ask her mother, put her arm round

her waist.



'I don't know yet,' say Mary.  'it be so odd!'  and the disposition to

laugh return for a moment.



'you be not at all prepare.'



'oh no!  he seem so young.  and,' she add, blush, 'I cannot tell,

but I should not have think his way be like the kind of thing.'



'nor I, and the less since Clara have be here.'



'oh,' say Mary, without a shade on her calm, sincere brow, 'he have

Clara so much with he because he be her only friend.'



the total absence of jealousy convince Mrs. Ponsonby that the heart

could hardly have be deeply touch, but Mary continue, in a

slightly tremble voice, 'I do not see why he should have do this,

unless--'



'unless that his father wish it.'



'oh,' say Mary, somewhat disappointed, 'but how could Lord Ormersfield

possibly--'



'he have an exceed dread of Louis's making as great a mistake as he

do,' say Mrs. Ponsonby; 'and perhaps he think you the good security.'



'and you think Louis only mean to please he?'



'my dear, I be afraid it may be so.  Louis be very fond of he, and

easily lead by a strong character.'



she press her daughter close, and feel rather than hear a little

sigh; but all that Mary say be, 'then I have well not think about

it.'



'Nay, my dear, tell I first what you think of his manner.'



'it be strange, and a little debonnaire, I think,' say Mary, smile,

but tear gather in her eye.  'he say I be too good for he.  he

say he would make I happy, and that he and his father would be very

happy.'  a great tear fall.  'something about not be worthy.'  Mary

shed a few more tear, while her mother silently caress she; and,

recover her composure, she firmly say, 'yes, mamma, I see it be not

the real thing.  it will be kind to he to tell he to put it out of

his head.'



'and you, my dear?'



'oh, mamma, you know you could not spare I.'



'if this be the real thing, dearest--'



'no,' whisper Mary, 'I could not leave you alone with papa.'



Mrs. Ponsonby go on as if she have not hear: 'as it be, I own I be

relieve that you should not wish to accept he.  I cannot be sure it

would be for your happiness.'



'I do not think it would be right,' say Mary, as if that be her

strength.



'he be a dear, noble fellow, and have the high, purest principle and

feeling.  I cann't but love he almost as if he be my own child: I

never see so much sweetness and prettiness about any one, except his

mother; and, oh! how far superior he be to she!  but then, he be

boyish, he be weak--I be afraid he be changeable.'



'not in his affection,' say Mary, reproachfully.



'no, but in purpose.  an impulse lead he he do not know where, and

now, I think, he be act on excellent motive, without know what

he be do.  there's no security that he might not meet the person

who--'



'oh, mamma!'



'he would strive against temptation, but we have no right to expose he

to it.  to accept he now, it seem to I, would be take too much

advantage of his having be leave so long to our mercy, and it might

be, that he would become restless and discontent, find out that he

have not choose for himself--regret--and have his tone of mind lowered--'



'oh, stop, mamma, I would not let it be, on any account.'



'no, my dear, I could not part with you where we be not sure the

'real thing' be feel for you.  if he have be strongly bent on it, he

would have conduct matter differently; but he know no well.'



'you and I don't part,' say Mary.



neither speak till she renew her first question,



'what be to be do?'



'shall I go and speak to he, my dear?'



'perhaps I have well, if you will come with I.'



then, hesitating--'I will go to my room for a moment, and then I shall

be able to do it more steadily.'



Mrs. Ponsonby's thought be anxious during the five minute of Mary's

absence; but she return compose, accord to her promise, whatever

might be the throbbing beneath.  as Mrs. Ponsonby open the door, she

see Louis and his aunt together, and be almost amused at their

conscious start, the youthful speed with which the one dart into the

further end of the corridor, and the undignified haste with which the

other hop down stair.



by the time they reach the drawing-room, he have recover himself so

as to come forward in a very suitable, simple manner, and Mary say, at

once, 'Louis, thank you; but we think it would be well not--'



'not!' exclaim Fitzjocelyn.



'not,' repeat Mary; 'I do not think there be that between we which

would make it right.'



'there would be!' cry Louis, gain ardour by the difficulty, 'if

you would only try.  Mrs. Ponsonby, tell she we would make she happy.'



'you would try,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, kindly; 'but I think she be right.

indeed, Louis, you must forgive I for say that you be hardly old

enough to make up your mind--'



'Madison be young,' say Louis, boyishly enough to make her smile,

but earnestly proceed, 'willn't you try I?  will you not say that if

I can be steady and persevering--'



'no,' say Mrs. Ponsonby; 'it would not be fair towards either of you

to make any condition.'



'but if without they, I should do well--Mary, will you say nothing?'



'we have well not think of it,' say Mary, her eye on the ground.



'why? be it that I be too foolish, too unworthy?'



she make a great effort.  'not that, Louis.  do not ask any more; it be

well not; you have do as your father wish--now let we be as we

be before.'



'my father will be very much disappointed,' say Louis, with chagrin.



'I will take care of your father,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, and as Mary take

the moment for escape, she proceed to say some affectionate word

of her own tender feeling towards Louis; to which he only reply by

say, sadly, and with some mortification, 'never mind; I know it be

quite right.  I be not worthy of she.'



'that be not the point; but I do not think you understand your own

feeling, or how far you be actuate by the wish to gratify your

father.'



'I assure you,' cry Louis, 'you do not guess how I look up to Mary;

her unfailing kindness, her enter into all my nonsense--her firm,

sound judgment, that would keep I right--and all she do for I when I

be lay up.  oh! why cannot you believe how dear she be to I?'



'_how dear_ be just what I do believe; but still this be not enough.'



'just what Aunt Kitty say,' say Louis, perplexed, yet amuse at his

own perplexity.



'you will know well by-and-by,' she answer, smile: 'in the

meantime, believe that you be our very dear cousin, as ever.'  and she

shake hand with he, detect in his answering smile a little relief,

although a great deal of disappointment.



Mary have take refuge in her room, where a great shower of tear would

have their course, though she scold herself all the time. 'have do!

have do!  it be good as it be.  he do not really wish it, and I

could not leave mamma.  we will never think of it again, and we will be

as happy as we be before.'



her mother, meanwhile, be wait below-stair, think that she

should spare Louis something, by take the initiative in speak to

his father; and she be sorry to see the alacrity with which the Earl

come up to she, with a congratulatory 'well, Mary!'  she could hardly

make he comprehend the real state of the case; and then his

resignation be far more try than that of the party chiefly

concern.  her praise of Fitzjocelyn have little power to comfort. 'I

see how it be,' he say, calmly: 'do not try to explain it away; I

acquiesce--I have no doubt you act wisely for your daughter.'



'nothing would have delight I more, if he be but a few year

old.'



'you need not tell I the poor boy's failing,' say his father, sadly.



'it be on account of no failing; but would it not be a great mistake to

risk their happiness to fulfil our own scheme?'



'I hope to secure their happiness.'



'ay, but be there not something too capricious to find happiness

without its own free will and choice?  do you never hear of the heart?'



'oh! if she be attach elsewhere'--and he seem so much relieved,

that Mrs. Ponsonby be sorry to be oblige to contradict he in haste,

and explain that she do not believe Fitzjocelyn's heart to be yet

develop; whereupon he be again greatly vex.  'so he have offer

himself without attachment.  I beg your pardon, Mary; I be sorry your

daughter should have be so treat.'



'do not misunderstand I.  he be strangely youthful and simple, bent on

please you, and fancy his warm, brotherly feeling to be what you

desire.'



'it would be the safe foundation.'



'yes, if he be ten year old, and have see the world; but in these

thing he be like a child, and it would be dangerous to influence he.

do not take it to heart; you ought to be content, for I see nothing

so plainly as that he love nobody half so well as you.  only be

patient with he.'



'you be the same Mary as ever,' he say, soften; and she leave he,

hope that she have secure a favourable audience for his son, who soon

appear at the window, somewhat like a culprit.



'I could not help it!' he say.



'no; but you may set a noble aim before you--you may render yourself

worthy of her esteem and confidence, and in so do you will fulfil my

fond hope.'



'I ask she to try I, but they would make no condition.  I be sorry

this could not be, since you wish it.'



'if you be not sorry on your own account, there be no regret to be

waste on mine.'



'candidly, father,' say Louis, 'much as I like she, I cannot be sorry

to keep my youth and liberty a little long.'



'then you should never have enter on the subject at all,' say Lord

Ormersfield, begin to write a letter; and poor Louis, in his

praiseworthy effort not to be reserve with he, find he have be

confess that he have not only be again make a fool of himself,

but, what be less frequent and less pardonable, of his father

likewise.   he limp out at the window, and be presently find by his

great-aunt, read what he call a raving novel, to see how he ought

to have do it.  she shake her head at he, and tell he that he be

not even decently concerned.



'indeed I be,' he reply.  'I wish my father to have have some peace

of mind about I, and it do not flatter one's vanity.'



dear, soft-hearted Aunt Kitty, with all her store of comfort ready

prepared, and unable to forgive, or even credit, the rejection of her

Louis, without a prior attachment, give a hint that this might be his

consolation.  he catch eagerly at the idea.  'I have never once think

of that!  it cann't be any Spaniard out in Peru--she have too much sense.

what be you look so funny about?  what! be it nearer home?  that's

it, then!  Famous!  it would be a capital arrangement, if that terrible

old father be conformable.  what an escape I have have of he!  I be

sure it be a most natural and proper preference--'



'stop! stop, Louis, you be go too fast.  I know nothing.  don't say

a word to Jem, on any account: indeed, you must not.  it be all go

on very well now; but the least notion that he be observe, or that it

be his Uncle Oliver's particular wish, and there would be an end of

it.'



she be just wise enough to keep back the wish of the other vizier,

but she have say enough to set Louis quite at his ease, and put he in

the high spirit.  he seem to have take out a new lease of

boyishness, and, though constrain before Mary, laugh, talk, and

play prank, so as unconsciously to fret his father exceedingly.



Clara's alert wit perceive that so many private interview have some

signification; and Mrs. Frost find she talk it over with her

brother, and conjecture so much, that granny think it well to

supply the key, thinking, perhaps, that a little jealousy would do Jem

no harm.  but the effect on he be to produce a fit of hearty

laughter, as he remember poor Lord Ormersfield's unaccountable

urbanity and suppress exultation in the morning's ride.  'I honour

the Ponsonbys,' he say, 'for not choose to second his lordship's

endeavour to tyrannize over that poor fellow, body and soul.  Poor

Louis! he be fabulously dutiful.'



but Clara, recover from her first stupor of wonder, begin scold

he for presume to laugh at anything so cruel to Louis.  it be not

the part of a friend!  and with tear of indignation and sympathy

start from her eye, she be pathetically certain that, though

granny and Jem be so unfeeling as to laugh, his high spirit be

only assume to hide his suffering.  'Poor Louis! what have he not say

to she about Mary last night!  now she know what he mean!  and as to

Mary, she be glad she have never like she, she have no patience with

she: of course, she be far too prosy and stupid to care for anything

like Louis, it be a great escape for he.  it would serve she right to

marry a horrid little crooked clerk in her father's office; and poor

dear, dear Louis must get over it, and have the most beautiful wife in

the world.  don't you remember, Jem, the lady with the splendid dark

eye on the platform at Euston Square, when you so nearly make we miss

the train, with the brow that you said--'



'Hush, Clara, don't talk nonsense.'









CHAPTER XII.



CHILDE ROLAND.



  a house there be, and that's enough,

  from whence one fatal morning issue

  a brace of warrior, not in buff,

  but rustle in their silk and tissue.

  the heroine undertake the task;

  Thro' lane unknown, o'er stile they ventured,--

  Rapped at the door, nor stay to ask,

  but bounce into the parlour enter.

                            Gray's Long Story.





'no carmine?  nor scarlet lake in powder?'



'could procure some, my Lord.'



'thank you, the actinia would not live.  I must take what I can find. a

lump of gamboge--'



'if you stay much long, he will not retain his sense,' mutter

James Frost, who be lean backwards against the counter, where the

bewildered bookseller of the little coast-town of Bickleypool be

bustling, in the vain endeavour to understand and fulfil the demand of

that perplex customer, Lord Fitzjocelyn.



'some drawing-paper.  this be hardly absorbent enough.  if you have any

block sketch-books?--'



'could procure some, my Lord.'



James look at his watch, while the man dive into his innermost

recess.  'the tide!' he say.



'never mind, we shall only stick in the mud.'



'how could you expect to find anything here?  a half-crown paint-box be

their wild dream.'



'keep quiet, Jem, go and look out some of those library book, like a

wise man.'



'a wise man would be at a loss here,' say James, cast his eye along

the battered purple back of the circulate-library book.



'Wisdom willn't condescend!  ah! thank you, this will do nicely. those

colour--yes; and the Seaside Book.  I'll choose one or two. what be

most popular here?'



James begin to whistle; but Louis, take up a volume, became engross

beyond the power of hint, and hardly step aside to make way for

some lady who enter the shop.  a peremptory touch of the arm at

length rouse he, and hold up the book to the shopman, he put it

into his pocket, seize his ash-stick, put his arm into his cousin's,

and hasten into the street.



'do you ever see--' begin Jem.



'most striking.  I do not know you have meet with she.  what an

idea--the false self conjure up phantoms--'



'what be you talk of?  do you not see she?'



'Elizabeth Barrett.  be she there?'



'be that her name?  do you know she?'



'I have hear of she, but never--'



'How?--where?  who be she?'



'I only see her name in the title-page.'



'what's all this?  you do not see she?'



'who?  do not some lady come into the shop?'



'some lady!  be it possible?  why, I touch you to make you look.'



'I think it be your frenzy about the tide.  what now?--'



James make a gesture of despair.  'the lovely creature I ever see.

you may see she yet, as she come out.  come back!'



'don't be so absurd,' say Fitzjocelyn, laughing, and, with instinctive

dislike of stare, resist his cousin's effort to wheel he round.

'what, you will?' withdraw his arm.  'I shall put off without you,

if you don't take care.'



and, laugh, he watch Jem hurry up the slope street and turn the

corner, then turn to pursue his own way, his step much less lame and

his look far more healthful than they have be a month before.  he

reach the quay--narrow, slippery, and fishy, but not without beauty,

as the green water lap against the hewn stone, and rock the

little boat moor in the wide bay, shelter by a richly-woode

promontory.  'Jem in a fit of romance!  well, whose fault will it be if

we miss the tide?  I'll sit in the boat, and read that poem again.--

oh! here he come, out of breath.  well, Jem, do the heroine drop

glove or handkerchief?  or, on a second view, be she minus an eye?'



'you be,' say James, hurry breathlessly to unmoor the boat.



'let I row,' say Louis; 'your breath and sense be both lose in the

fair vision.'



'it be of no use to talk to you--'



'I shall ask no question till we be out of the harbour, or you will

be run foul of one of those collier--a tribute with which the Fair

Unknown may dispense.'



the numerous black collier and lighter show that precaution be

needful till they have push out far enough to make the little fishy

town look graceful and romantic; and the tide be ebb so fast, that

Louis deem it prudent to spend his strength on row rather than on

talk.



James first break silence by exclaiming--'Do you know where Beauchastel

be?'



'on the other side of the promontory.  don't you remember the spire

rise among the tree, as we see it from the water?'



'that church must be worth see.  I declare I'll go there next

Sunday.'



another silence, and Louis said--'I be curious to know whether you see

she.'



'she be get into the carriage as I turn the corner; so I go

back and ask Bull who they be.'



'I hope she be the greengrocer's third cousin.'



'Pshaw!  I tell you it be Mrs. Mansell and her visitor.'



'Oho!  no wonder Beauchastel architecture be so grand.  what an

impudent fellow you be, Jem!'



'the odd thing be,' say James, a little ashamed of Louis having put

Mansell and Beauchastel together, as he have not intend, 'that it

seem they ask Bull who we be.  I think one old lady be stare

hard at you, as if she mean to claim acquaintance, but you shoot out of

the shop like a sky-rocket.'



'luckily there's no danger of that.  no one will come to molest we

here.'



'depend on it, they be meditate a descent on his lordship.'



'you shall appear in my name, then.'



'too like a bad novel: besides, you don't look respectable enough for

my tutor.  and, now I think of it, no doubt she be ask Bull how he

come to let such a disreputable old shooting-jacket into his shop.'



the young man work up an absurd romance between they, as merrily they

cross the estuary, and row up a narrow creek, with a whitewash

village on one side, and on the other a solitary house, the garden

slope to the water, and very nautical--the vane, a union-jack wave

by a brilliant little sailor on the top of a mast, and the arbour, half

a boat set on end; whence, as James steer up to the stone step that

be one by one appear, there emerge an old, grizzly,

weather-beat sailor, who take his pipe from his mouth, and catch

hold of the boat.



'thank you, Captain!' cry Fitzjocelyn.  'I've bring home the boat

safe, you see, by my own superhuman exertion--no thank to Mr. Frost,

there!'



'that's his way, Captain,' retort Jem, leap out, and help his

cousin: 'you may thank I for get he home at all!  but for I, he

would have his back against the counter, and his head in a book, this

very moment.'



'ask he what he be after,' return Louis.



'which of we d'ye think most likely to lag, Captain Hannaford?' cry

Jem, prevent the question.



'which would you choose to have on board?'



'Ye'd both of ye make more mischief than work,' say the old seaman,

who have be look from one to the other of the young man, as if they

be perform a comedy for his special diversion.



'so you would not enter we on board the Eliza Priscilla?' cry Louis.



'no, no,' say the old man, shrewdly, and with an air of hold

something back; whereupon they both press he, and obtain for

answer, 'no, no, I wouldn't sail with you'--signing towards

Fitzjocelyn--'in my crew: ye'd be more trouble than ye're worth.  and

as to you, sir, if I wouldn't sail with ye, I'd like still less to sail

under you.'



he finish with a droll, deprecate glance, and Louis laugh

heartily; but James be silent, and as soon as they have enter the

little parlour, declare that it would not do to encourage that old

skipper--he be waylay they like the Ancient Mariner, and be

actually grow impudent.



'an old man's opinion of two youngster be not what I call impudence,'

begin Louis, with an emphasis that make Jem divert his attack.



those two cousin have never spend a happy month than in these small

lodging, build by the old retire merchant-seaman evidently on the

model of that pride of his heart, the Eliza Priscilla, his little

coast trader, now the charge of his only survive son; for this be

a family where drown be like a natural death, and old Captain

Hannaford look on the probability of sleep in ebbscreek

churchyard, much as Bayard do at the prospect of die in his bed. his

old deaf wife keep the little cabin-like room most exquisitely neat;

and the twelve-year-old Priscilla, the orphan of one of the lost son,

wait on the gentleman with an old-fashioned, womanly deportment and

staid countenance that, in the absence of all other ground of

distress, Louis declare be quite a pain to he.



the novelty of the place, the absence of restraint, the easy life, and,

above all, the freshness of return health, render his spirit

exceedingly high, and he have never be more light-hearted and full of

mirth.  James, elated at his rapid improvement, be scarcely less full

of liveliness and frolic, enjoy to the utmost the holiday, which

perhaps both secretly feel might be the farewell to the perfect

carelessness of boyish relaxation.  bathing, boat, fishing,

dabbling, be the order of the day, and withal just enough quarrel

and tease to add a little spice to their pleasure. Louis be over

head and ear in maritime natural history; but Jem, back by Mrs.

Hannaford, prohibit his 'mess' from make a permanent settlement

in the parlour; though festoon of seaweed trellis the porch,

ammonite heap the grass-plat, tub of sea-water flank the approach

to the front door; and more than one bowl, with inmate of a suspicious

nature, be often deposit even on the parlour table.



on the afternoon follow the expedition to Bickleypool, Louis be

seat, with an earthenware pan before he, coax an actinia with raw

beef to expand her blossom, to be copy for Miss Faithfull. another

bowl stand near, contain some feathery serpula; and the weed be

heap on the locker of the window behind he, and on the back of the

chair which support his lame foot.  the third and only remain

chair accommodate James, with a book place on the table; and a

semicircle sweep round it, within which nothing marine might extend.



Louis be by turn draw, entice his refractory sitter, exhort

she to bloom, and compliment her delicate beauty, until James, with

a groan, exclaim, 'be silence impossible to you, Fitzjocelyn? I would

go into the garden, but that I should be beset by the intolerable old

skipper!'



'I beg your pardon--I think you never hear nor heed I.'



'I don't in general, but this require attention; and it be past all

bear to hear how you go on to that Jelly!'



'read aloud, then: it will answer two purpose.



'this be Divinity--Hooker,' say James, sigh wearily.



'so much the well.  I read some once; I wish I have be oblige to go

on.'



'you be the oddest fellow!--After all, I believe you have a craving

after my profession.'



'be that a discovery?' say Louis, wash the colour out of his brush.

'the only person I envy be a country curate--except a town one.'



'don't talk like affectation!' growl James.



'do you know, Jem,' say Louis, lean back, and draw the brush

between his lip, 'I be persuade that something will turn up to

prevent it from be your profession.'



'your persuasion be wrong, then!'



'that fabulous uncle in the Indies--'



'you know I be determined to accept nothing from my uncle, be he to

lay it at my foot--which he never will.'



'literally or metaphorically?' ask Louis, softly.



'Pshaw!'



'you dynevor don't resemble my sea-pink.  see how she stretch she

elegant fringe for this very unpleasant bit of meat!  there!  I willn't

torment you any more; read, and stop my mouth!'



'you be in earnest?'



'you seem to think that if a man cannot be a clergyman, he be not to be

a Christian.'



'then don't break in with your actinia and stuff!'



'certainly not,' say Louis, gravely.



the first interruption come from James himself.  leap to his foot

with a sudden bound, he exclaim, 'there they be!' and stand

transfix in a gaze of ecstasy.



'you have make I smudge my lake,' say Louis, in the mild tone of

'Diamond, Diamond!'



'I tell you, there they be!' cry James, rush into wild activity.



'one would think it the Fair Unknown,' say Louis, not trouble

himself to look round, nor desist from wash out his smudge.



'it be! it is!--it be all of they!  here they come, I tell you, and the

place be a very merman's cave!'



'take care--the serpula--don't!' as James hurriedly open the door

lead to the stair--dispose of the raw meat on one step and the

serpula on another, and hurl after they the heap of seaweed, all but

one trail festoon of 'Luckie Minnie's line,' which, while his back

be turn, Louis by one dexterous motion wreathe round the crown of

his straw hat; otherwise never stir, but wash quietly on, until

he rise as little Priscilla open the door, and stand aside, mutely

overawe at the stream of flounced lady that flow past, and seem

to fill up the entire room.  it be almost a surprise to find that,

after all, there be only three of they!



'I know I be not mistaken,' say a very engaging, affectionate voice.

'it be quite shocking to have to introduce myself to you--Lady Conway--'



'my aunt!' cry Louis, with eager delight--'and my cousin!' he add,

turn with a slight blush towards the maiden, whom he feel, rather

than see, to be the worthy object of yesterday's rapture.



'not quite,' she answer, not avoid the grasp of his hand, but

return it with calm, distant politeness.



'not quite,' repeat Lady Conway.  'your real cousin be no far

off than Beauchastel--'



'where you must come and see they,' add the third lady--a portly,

cordial, goodnatured dame, whom Lady Conway introduce as Mrs. Mansell,

who have know his mother well; and Louis make a kind of presentation

of his cousin James, the two elder lady be locate on two of the

chair: the young one, as if try to be out of the way, place

herself on the locker.  Jem stand lean on the back of the other

chair; and Louis stand over his aunt, in an ecstasy at the meeting--at

the kind, warm manner and pleasant face of his aunt--and above all, at

the indescribable pleasure impart by the mere presence of the

beautiful girl, though he hardly dare even to look at she; and she be

the only person whose voice be silent in the chorus of congratulation,

on the wonderful chance that have bring the aunt and nephew together.

the one have be a fortnight at Beauchastel, the other a month at

Ebbscreek, without guess at each other's neighbourhood, until Lady

Conway's attention have be attract at the library by Louis's

remarkable resemblance to her sister, and make inquiry, she have

learn that he be no other than Lord Fitzjocelyn.  she be enchant

with the likeness, declare that all she wish be to see he look

less delicate, and add her entreaty to those of Mrs. Mansell, that

the two young man would come at once to Beauchastel.



Louis look with wistful doubt at James, who, he know, could not brook

go to fine place in the character of tutor; but, to his surprise

and pleasure, James be willing and eager, and make no demur, except

that Fitzjocelyn could not walk so far, and the boat be go out.

Mrs. Mansell then propose the ensue Monday, when, she say, she and

Mr. Mansell should be delighted to have they to meet a party of

shoot gentleman--of course they be sportsman. Louis answer at

once for James; but for himself, he could not walk, nor even ride the

offer shooting-pony; and thereupon ensue more minute question

whether his ankle be still painful.



'not more than so as to be a useful barometer.  I have be test it

by the sea-weed.  if I be good for nothing else, I shall be a walking

weather-glass, as well as a standing warning against man-trap.'



'you don't mean that you fall into a man-trap!' exclaim Mrs. Mansell,

in horror.  'that will be a warning for Mr. Mansell!  I have such a

dread of the frightful thing!'



'a trap ingeniously set by myself,' say Louis.  'I be only too glad

no poor poacher fall into it.'



'your father tell I that it be a fall down a steep bank,' exclaim

Lady Conway.



'exactly so; but I suppose he think it for my credit to conceal that

my trap consist of a flight of stone stop, very solid and permanent,

with the trifling exception of cement.'



'if the truth be know,' say James, 'I believe that a certain scamp

of a boy be at the bottom of those step.'



'I'm the last person to deny it,' say Louis, quietly, though not

without rise colour, 'there be a scamp of a boy at the bottom of the

step, and very unpleasant he find it--though not without the good

consequence, and among they the present--' and he turn to Lady

Conway with a pretty mixture of gracefulness and affection, enough to

win the heart of any aunt.



Mrs. Mansell presently fall into rapture at the sight of the drawing

material, which must, she be sure, delight Isabel, but she be rather

discomfit by the sight of the 'subject,'--called it an odious

creature, then good-humouredly laugh at herself, but would not sit

down again, evidently wish to escape from close quarter with such

monster.  Lady Conway likewise rise, and look into the basin,

exclaim, in her turn, 'ah!  I see you understand these thing!  yes,

they be very interesting!  Virginia will be delighted; she have be

beg I for an aquarium wherever we go.  you must tell she how to

manage it.  look, Isabel, would not she be in ecstasy?'



Miss Conway look, but do not seem to partake in the admiration. 'I

be perverse enough never to like what be the fashion,' she say.



'I try to disgust Fitzjocelyn with his pet on that very ground,'

say James; 'but their charm be too strong for he.'



'fashion be the very testimony to they,' say Louis.  'I think I could

convince you.'



he would perhaps have produce his lovely serpula blossom, but he be

force to pass on to his aunt and Mrs. Mansell, who have find something

safe for their admiration, in the shape of a great cornu ammonis in

the garden.



'he can throw himself into any pursuit,' say James, as he pause at

the door with Miss Conway; but suddenly become aware of the slimy

entanglement round his hat, he exclaim, 'absurd fellow!' and pull

it off rather petulantly, add, with a little constraint, 'recovery

do put people into mad spirit!  I fancy the honest folk here look

on in amaze.'



Miss Conway give a very pretty smile of sympathy and consolation, that

shine like a sunbeam on her beautiful pensive feature and dark, soft

eye.  then she begin to admire the view, as they stand on the turf,

beside Captain Hannaford's two small cannon, overlook the water

towards Bickleypool, with a purple hill rise behind it.  a yacht be

sail into the harbour, and James run indoor to fetch a spy-glass,

while Lady Conway seize the occasion of ask her nephew his tutor's

name.



Louis, who have fancy she must necessarily understand all his kindre,

be glad to guard against shock to Jem's sensitive pride, and eagerly

explain the disproportion between his birth and fortune, and his

gallant effort to relieve his grandmother from her burthen.  he be

pleased to find that he have touch all his auditor, and to hear

kind-hearte Mrs. Mansell repeat her special invitation to Mr. Frost

Dynevor with double cordiality.



'if you must play practical joke,' say James, as they watch the

carriage drive off, 'I wish you would choose well moment for they.'



'I think you would be more in character as a merman brave,' say

Louis.



'I wonder what character you think you appear in?'



'I never mean you to discover it while they be here, nor would you,

if you be not so careful of your complexion.  come, throw it at my

head now, as you would have do naturally, and we shall have fair

weather again!'



'I be only concerned at the impression you have make.'



'too late now, be it?  you don't mean to be bad company for the rest of

the day.  it be too bad, after such a presence as have be here. she be

a poem in herself.  it be like a vision to see her move in that calm,

gliding way.  such eye, so deep, so tranquil, reveal the sphere

apart where she dwell!  an ideal!  how can you be savage after sit

in the same room, and hear that sweet, low voice?'



meantime the young lady sit back in the carriage, dreamily hearing, and

sometimes answer, the conversation of her two elder, as they

return through pretty forest-drive into the park of Beauchastel, and

up to the handsome, well-keep house; where, after a few word from Mrs.

Mansell, she ascend the stair.



'Isabel!' cry a bright voice, and a girl of fourteen come skate

along the polished oak corridor.  'come and have some tea in the

school-room, and tell we your adventure!'  and so say, she drag

the dignified Isabel into an old-fashioned sitting-room, where a little

pale child, two year young, spring up, and, with a cry of joy, clung

round the eld sister.



'my white bind-weed,' say Isabel, fondly caress she, 'have you be

out on the pony?'



'oh I yes, we want only you.  sit down there.'



and as Isabel obey, the little Louisa place herself on her lap, with

one arm round her neck, and look with proud glee at the kind,

sensible-faced governess who be pour out the tea.



'the reconnoitre party!' eagerly cry Virginia.



'do you find the cousin?'



'yes, we do.'



'oh!  then what be he like?'



'you will see when he come on Monday.'



'come--oh!  and be he so very handsome?'



'I can see how pretty a woman your Aunt Louisa must have be.'



'News!' laugh Virginia; 'when mamma be always preach to I to be

like she!'



'be he goodnature?' ask Louisa.



'I have not full mean of judging,' say Isabel, more thoughtfully than

seem justify by the childish question.  'his cousin be come too,'

she add; 'Mr. Frost Dynevor.'



'another cousin!' exclaim Virginia.



'no; a relation of Lord Ormersfield--a person to be much respect. he

be heir to a lost estate, and of a very grand old family.  Lord

Fitzjocelyn say that he be exert himself to the very utmost for his

grandmother and orphan sister; deny himself everything.  he be to be

a clergyman.  there be a book of divinity open on the table.'



'he must be very good!' say Louisa, in a low, impressed voice, and

fondle her sister's hand.  'will he be as good as Sir Roland?'



'oh! I be glad he be come!' cry Virginia.  'we have so wish to

see somebody very good!'



a bell rang--a signal that Lady Conway would be in her room, where she

like she two girl to come to she while she be dress. Louisa

reluctantly detach herself from her sister, and Virginia linger to

say, 'dress quickly, please, please, Isabel.  I know there be a new bit

of Sir Roland do!  oh! I hope Mr. Dynevor be like he!'



'not quite,' say Isabel, smile as they run away.  'poor child, I

be afraid they will be disappoint; but long may their craving be to

see 'somebody very good!'



'I be very glad they should meet any one answer the description,'

say the governess.  'I don't gather that you be much delighted with

the object of the expedition.'



'a pretty boy--very pretty.  it quite explain all I have ever hear of

his mother.'



'as you tell the child.'



'More than I tell the child.  their aunt never by description seem

to I my ideal, as you know.  I would rather have see a likeness to

Lord Ormersfield, who--though I don't like he--have something strike

in the curt, dry, melancholy dignity of his manner.'



'and how have Lord Fitzjocelyn displease you?'



'perhaps there be no harm in he--he may not have character enough for

that; but talk, attitude, everything betray that he be use to be

worship--take it as a matter of course, and believe nothing so

interesting as himself.'



'don't you think you may have go with your mind make up?'



'if you mean that I think myself uncalled for, and heartily detest

the expedition, you be right; but I see what I do not expect.'



'be it very bad?'



'a very idle practical joke, such as I dislike particularly.  a

quantity of wet sea-weed wound round Mr. Dynevor's hat.'



Miss King laugh.  'really, my dear, I don't think you know what young

man like from each other.'



'Mr. Dynevor do not like it,' say Isabel, 'though he try to pass it

off lightly as the spirit of recovery.  those spirit--I be afraid he

have too much to suffer from they.   there be something so ungenerous in

practical wit, especially from a prosperous man to one unprosperous!'



'well, Isabel, I willn't contradict, but I should imagine that such

thing often show people to be on the good of term.'



Isabel shake her head, and leave the room, to have her dark hair

braid, with little heed from herself, as she sit dreamily over a

book.  before the last bracelet be clasp, she be claim by her two

little sister, who give she no peace till her desk be open, and a

manuscript draw forth, that they might hear the two new page of she

morning's work.  it be a fouque-like tale, relieve and give

expression to the yearning for holiness and loftiness that have grow

up within Isabel Conway in the cramp round of her existence.  the

story go back to the troubadour day of Provence, where a knight, the

heir of a line of shattered fortune, be betroth to the heiress of

the oppressor, that thus all wrong might be redress.  they have

learn to love, when Sir Roland discover that the land in dispute

have be win by sacrilege.  he meet Adeline at a chapel in a little

valley, to tell the whole.  they agree to sacrifice themselves, that

restitution should be make; the knight to go as a crusader to the Holy

Land; the lady, after wait awhile to tend her aged father, to enter

a convent, and restore her dower to the church.  twice have Isabel

write that parting, pour out her heart in the high-soule tender

devotion of Roland and his Adeline; and both feeling and description

be beautiful and poetical, though unequal.  Louisa use to cry

whenever she hear it, yet only wish to hear it again and again, and

when Virginia insist on read it to Miss King, tear have actually

be surprised in the governess's eye.  yet she like still well

Adeline's meek and patient temper, where breathe the feeling Isabel

herself would fain cherish--the deep, earnest, spiritual life and high

consecrate purpose that be with the Provencal maiden through all her

enforce round of gay festival, light minstrelsy, tourney, and court

of Love.  thus far have the story go.  Isabel have be write a wild,

mysterious ballad, revert to that high love and the true spirit of

self-sacrifice, which be to thrill strangely on the ear of the

thoughtless at a contention for the Golden Violet, and which she have

adapt to a favourite air, to the extreme delight of the two girl.

to they the Chapel in the valley, Roland and his Adeline, be very

nearly real, and be the hidden joy of their hearts,--all the more

because their existence be a precious secret between the three sister

and Miss King, who view it as such an influence on the young one,

that, with more meaning than she could have explain, she call it

their Telemaque.  the following-up of the teaching of Isabel and Miss

King might lead to result as little suspect by Lady Conway as

Fenelon's philosophy be by Louis XIV.



Lady Conway be several year old than her beautiful sister, and have

marry much later.  perhaps she have aim too high, and have meet with

disappointment unavowe; for she have finally content herself with

become the second wife of Sir Walter Conway, and be now his serene,

goodnatured, prosperous widow.  dislike his estate and neighbourhood,

and think the daughter want London society and London master,

she shut up the house until her son should be of age, and spend the

season in Lowndes-square, the autumn either abroad, in visit, or at

watering-place.



Beauchastel be an annual resort of the family.  Isabel be more

slenderly portion than her half-sister; and she be one of the

near survive relation of her mother's cousin, Mr. Mansell, whose

large comfortable house be always hospitable; and whose wife, a great

dealer in goodnatured confidential gossip, use to throw out hint to

her great friend Lady Conway, that much depend on Isabel's

marriage--that Mr. Mansell have be annoy at connexion form by

other of his relation--but though he have decide on nothing, the dear

girl's choice might make a great difference.



nothing could be more passive than Miss Conway.  she could not remember

her mother, but her childhood have be pass under an admirable

governess; and though her own Miss Longman have leave she, Miss King, the

successor, be a person worthy of her chief confidence.  at

two-and-twenty, the school-room be still the home of her affection,

and her ardent love be lavish on her little sister and her brother

Walter.



go out with Lady Conway be mere matter of duty and submission. she

have not such high animal spirit as to find enjoyment in her gaiety,

and her grave, pensive character only attain to walk through her

part; she have see little but the more frivolous sample of society,

scorn and dislike all that be worldly and manoeuvre, and hung

back from levity and coquetry with utter distaste.  remove from her

natural home, where she would have find duty and see various

aspect of life, she have little to interest or occupy she in her

unsettled wandering; and to she the sap of life be in book, in

dream, in the love of her brother and sister, and in discussion with

Miss King; her favourite vision for the future, the go to live with

Walter at Thornton Conway when he should be of age.  but Walter be

young than Louisa, and it be a very distant prospect.



her characteristic be a calm, serene indifference, in which she

stepmother acquiesce, as lover of peace do in what they cannot help;

and the more willingly, that her tranquil dignity and pensive grace

exactly suit the style of her tall queenly figure, delicate feature,

dark soft languid eye, and clear olive complexion, just tinge with

rosebud pink.



what Louis say of she to his tutor on the Monday night of their

arrival be beyond the bound of all reason; and it be even more

memorable that Jem be neither satirical nor disputatious, assent to

all, and if he sigh, it be after his door be shut.



a felicitous day ensue, spend by James in shooting, by Fitzjocelyn, in

the drawing-room; whither Mrs. Mansell have request Isabel's presence,

as a favour to herself.  the young lady sit at work, seldom raise her

eye, but this be enough for he; his intense admiration and pleasure

in her presence so exhilarate he, that he rattle away to the utmost.

Louisa be at first the excuse.  in no further doubt of his

good-nature, she spend an hour in the morning in give he anagram to

guess; and after she have repair to the schoolroom, he go on

invent fresh one, and transpose the ivory letter, ramble on in

his usual style of pensive drollery.  happiness never set he off to

advantage, and either there be more froth than ordinary, or it

appear unusually ridiculous to an audience who do not detect the

under-current of reflection.  his father would have be in despair,

Mrs. Ponsonby or Mary would have interpose; but the lady of

Beauchastel laugh and encourage him,--all but Isabel, who sit in the

window, and thought of Adeline, 'spighte and anger both,' by a

Navarrese coxcomb, with sleeve down to his heel, and shoe turn up

to his knee.  she give herself great credit for having already create

he a Viscount.



in the afternoon, Louis drive out lionize with his aunt; but though

the pony stop of themselves at all the notable view; sea, hill,

and river be lose on he.  Lady Conway could have draw out a far

less accessible person, and her outpouring of his own sentiment make

he regard she as perfect.



she consult he about her winter's resort.  Louisa require peculiar

care, and she have think of try mineral bath--what be think of

Northwold? what kind of house be there?  the Northwold faculty

themselves might have take a lesson from Fitzjocelyn's eloquent

analysis of the chemical property of the water, and all old Mr.

Frost's spirit would seem to have descend on he when he dilate on

the House Beautiful.  lodger for Miss Faithfull! what jubilee they

would cause!  and such lodger!  no wonder he be in ecstasy.  all the

evening the sound of his low, deliberate voice be unceasing, and his

calm announcement to his two little cousin be each one more

startling than the last; while James, to whom it be likewise all

sunshine, be full of vivacity, and a shrewd piquancy of manner that

give zest to all he say, and wonderfully enliven the often rather

dull circle at Beauchastel.



Morning come; and when the lady descend to breakfast, it be find

that Lord Fitzjocelyn have go out with the sportsman.  the child

lament, and their elder pronounce a young gentleman's passion for

shoot to be quite incalculable.  when, late in the day, the party

return, it be report that he do not appear to care much for the

sport; but have walk beside Mr. Mansell's shooting-pony, and have

finally go with he to see his model farm. this be a sure road to

the old squire's heart, and no one be more delighted with the guest.

for Aunt Catharine's sake, Louis be always attract by old age, and

his attentive manner have win Mr. Mansell's heart, even before his

inquiry about his hobby have complete the charm.  to expound and to

listen to history of agricultural experiment that really answer,

be highly satisfactory to both, and all the evening they be eager

over the great account-book which be the pride of the squire's heart;

while Virginia and Louisa grumble or look implore, and Isabel

marvel at there be any interest for any one in old Mr. Mansell's

conversation.



'what be the meaning of this?' ask James, as they go up stair.



Louis shrug like a Frenchman, look debonnaire, and say

'good-night.'



again he come down; prepare for shoot, though both pale and lame;

but he quietly put aside all expostulation, walk on until, about

fifty yard from the house, a pebble, turn under the injure foot,

cause such severe pain that he could but just stagg to a tree and

sit down.



there be much battle before Mr. Mansell would consent to leave he,

or he to allow James to help he back to the house, before go on to

overtake the party.



very irate be Jem, at folly that seem to have undo the benefit of

the last month, and at changeableness that be a desertion of the queen

to whom all homage be due.  he be astonish that Louis turn into

the study, a room little inhabit in general, and say, 'make

haste--you will catch the other; don't fall in with the lady.'



'I mean to send your aunt to you.'



'pray don't.  cann't you suppose that peace be grateful after having

count every mortal hour last night?'



'be that the reason you be go to walk ten mile without a leg to

stand upon?  Fitzjocelyn! be this systematic?'



'what be?' say Louis, wearily.



'your treatment of--your aunt.'



'on what system should aunt be treat?'



'of all moment to choose for caprice!  exactly when I think even you

be fix!'



'pur troppo,' sigh Louis.



'ha!' cry Jem, 'you have not go and precipitate matter!  I

think you could never amaze I again; but even you might have feel

she be a be to merit rather more time and respect!'



'even I be not devoid of the organ of veneration.'



his meek tone be a further provocation; and with uplifted chin, hair

ruffle like the crest of a Shetland pony, flash eye, and distinct

enunciation, James exclaim, 'you will excuse I for not understand

you.  you come here; you devote yourself to your aunt and cousin--you

seem strongly attract; then, all on a sudden, you rush out

shooting--an exercise for which you don't care, and when you cann't

walk: you show the most pointed neglect.  and after be do-up

yesterday, you repeat the experiment to-day, as if for the mere object

of lame yourself for life.  I could understand pique or temper, but

you have not the--'



'the sense,' say Louis; 'no, nor anything to be pique at.'



'if there be a motive,' say James, 'I have a right to demand not to be

trifle with any long.'



'I wish you could be content to shoot your bird, and leave I in

peace: you will only have your fun spoilt, like mine, and go into a

fury.  the fact be, that my father write in a state of perturbation.

he say, I might have understand, from the tenor of his conduct, that

he do not wish I to be intimate with my aunt's family!  he cannot

know anything about they, for it be all one warning against fashion and

frivolity.  he do not blame we--especially not you.'



'I wish he do.'



'but he desire that our intercourse should be no more than propriety

demand, and plunge into a discourse against first impression,

beauty, and the like.'



'so that's the counterblast!'



'you ought to help I, Jem,' say Louis, dejectedly.



'I'll help you with all my heart to combat your father's prejudice.'



'an hour's unrestrained intercourse with these people would well

destroy they,' say Louis; 'but, in the mean time--I wonder what he

mean.'



'he mean that he be in terror for his darling scheme.'



'Mrs. Ponsonby be very right,' sigh Louis.



'ay!  a pretty condition you would be in, if she have not have too much

principle to let you be a victim to submission.  that's what you'll

come to, though!  you will never know the meaning of passion; you will

escape something by it, though you will be twist round his lordship's

finger, and marry his choice.  I hope she will have red hair!'



'negative and positive obedience stand on different ground,' say

Louis, with such calmness as often fret James, but save their

friendship.  'besides, till I have this letter, I have no notion of any

such thing.'



James's indignation result in fierce stammering; while Louis

deliberately continue a viva voce self-examination, with his own

quaint naivete, betray emotion only by the burn colour of cheek

and brow.



'no; I have no such notion.  I only feel that her presence have the

gladdening, inspiriting, calm effect of moonlight or starlight. I

reverence she as a dream of poetry walk the earth.  ha! now one

hear the sound of it--that be like it!  I do not think it be such a

confirm case.  I should have go on in peace but for this letter,

and never think about it at all.'



'so much the well for you!'



'my father be too just and candid not to own his error, and be

thankful.'



'and you expect she to bear with your alternation in the mean time?'



'towards she I have not alternate.  when I have make giggle with Clara

under the influence of the starry sky, do you suppose I giggle with

Lyra or the Pleiades!  I should dread to see the statue descend; it

seem irreverence even to gaze.  the lofty serenity keep I aloof.  I

like to believe in a creature too bright and good for human nature's

daily food.  our profane squint through telescope at the Lady Moon

reveal nothing but wear-out volcano and dry ocean, black gulfs and

scorch desolation; but verily that may not be Lady Moon's fault--only

that of our base invention.  so I would be content to mark

she--Isabel, I mean--queenly, moonlike name!--walk in beauty and

tranquillity unruffled, without distort my vision by personal aim

at bring she down to my level.  there--don't laugh at I, Jem.'



'no, I be too sorry for you.'



'why!' he exclaim, impatient of compassion; 'do you think it

desperate?'



'I see your affection give to a most worthy object, and I know what

your notion of submission will end in.'



'once for all, Jem,' say Fitzjocelyn, 'do you know how you be use

my father?  no; Isabel Conway may be the happiness or the

disappointment of my life--I cannot tell.  I be sure my father be

mistaken, and I believe he may be convince; but I be bind not to fly

in the face of his direct command, and, till we can come to an

understanding, I must do the good I can, and trust to--'



the last word be lose, as he turn to nurse his ankle, and presently

to entreat James to join the sportsman; but Jem be in a mood to do

nothing pleasing to himself nor to any one else.  a sacrifice be

usually irritate to the spectator, who remonstrate rather than

listen to self-reproach; and Louis have be guilty of three great

offence--be in the right, make himself ridiculous, and submit

tamely--besides the high-treason to Isabel's beauty. it be well that

the Earl be safe out of the way of the son of the Pendragons!



Fitzjocelyn be in pain and discomfort enough to make James unwilling

to leave he; though his good-will do not prevent he from keep up

such a stream of earplug and sinister augury, that it be almost the

climax of good-temper that enable Louis to lie still, try to read a

great quarto Park's Travels, and abstain from any reply that could

aggravate matter.  as the one would not go to luncheon, the other

would not; and after watch the sound of the lady' set out for

their drive, Louis say that he would go and lie on the turf; but at

that moment the door be throw open, and in ran Virginia.

explanation be quickly exchange--how she have come to find Vertot's

Malta for Isabel, and how he have be send in by hurt his foot.



'be you go to stay in all day?' say Virginia.  'oh, come with we!

we have the pony-carriage; and we be go to a dear old ruin, walk

and drive by turn.  do, pray, come; there's plenty of room.'



there could be no objection to the school-room party, and it be no

small relief to escape from James and hope he be amuse; so

Fitzjocelyn allow himself to be drag off in triumph, and James be

accede to his entreaty that he would go in search of the

shooting-party, when, as they reach the hall-door, they behold Miss

Conway wait on the step.



there be no recede for she any more than for Louis, so she could

only make a private resolution against the pony-carriage, and dedicate

herself to the unexceptionable company of little sister, governess and

tutor; for James have resign the shooting, and attach himself to the

expedition.  it be an excellent opportunity of smooth his cousin's

way, and show that all be not caprice that might so appear: so he

begin to tell of his most advantageous trait of character, and to

explain away his whimsical conduct, with great ardour and ingenuity.

he think he should be perfectly satisfied if he could win but one

smile of approbation from that gravely beautiful mouth; and it come at

last, when he tell of Fitzjocelyn's devoted affection to Mrs. Frost and

his uncease kindness to the old lady of Dynevor Terrace.  thus

gratify, he let himself be lead into abstract question of

principle,--a style of discussion frequent between Miss King and

Isabel, but on which the latter have never see the light of a man's

mind throw except through book.  the gentleman whom she have meet be

seldom either deep or earnest, except those too much beyond her reach;

and she have avoid anything like confidence or intimacy: but Mr.

Dynevor could enlighten and vivify her perplexed reflection, answer

her inquiry, confirm her opinion of book, and enter into all that

she venture with diffidence to express.  he be enchant to find that

no close approach could dim the lustre of Louis's moon, and honour

she doubly for what she have make herself in frivolous society.  he feel

sure that his testimony would gain credit where Fitzjocelyn's would be

regard as love-blind, and already behold himself force full proof

of her merit on the reluctant Earl, behold Louis happy, and Isabel

emancipate from constraint.



a five mile' walk give full time for such blissful discovery; for

Miss Conway be resolute against enter the pony-carriage, and walk

on, protest against ever be fatigue; while Louis be oblige to

occupy his seat in the carriage, with a constant change of companion.



'I think, my dear,' say Miss King, when the young girl have go to

their mother's toilette, 'that you will have to forgive I.'



'meaning,' say Isabel, 'that you be bite too!  ah! Miss King, you

could not withstand the smile with which he hand you in!'



'could you withstand such an affectionate account of your cruel,

tyrannical practical joker?'



'fact be stubborn thing.  do you know what Mr. Dynevor be do at

this moment?  I meet he in the gallery, hurry off to Ebbscreek for

some lotion for Lord Fitzjocelyn's ankle.  I beg he to let Mrs.

Mansell send; but no-no one but himself could find it, and his cousin

could not bear stranger to disarrange his room.  if anything be

want, it would be enough to see how simply and earnestly such a man

have be bring to pamper--nay, to justify, almost to adore, the whim

and folly of this youth.'



'if anything be want to what?  to your dislike.'



'it would not be so active as dislike, unless--' Isabel speak with

droop head, and Miss King do not ask she to finish, but say, 'he

have not give you much cause for alarm.'



'so; he be at least a thorough gentleman.  it may be conceit, or wrong

self-consciousness, but from the moment the poor boy be spy in the

shop, I have a perception that mamma and Mrs. Mansell mark he down.

personally he would be innocent, but, through all his chatter, I cannot

shake off the fancy that I be watch, or that decide indifference be

not need to keep he at a distance.'



'I wish you could have see he without know he!'



'in vain, dear Miss King!  I cann't bear handsome man.  I see his

frivolity and shallowness; and for amiability, what do you think of

keep his cousin all the morning from shoot for such a mere

nothing, and then send he off for a ten mile' walk?



'for my part, I confess that I be strike with the good sense and

kindness he show in our tete-a-tete--I think it justify Mr.

Dynevor's description.'



'yes, I have no doubt that there be some good in he.  he might have

do very well, if he have not always be an idol.'



Isabel be the more provoke with Lord Fitzjocelyn, when, by-and-by, he

appear in the drawing-room, and relate the result of his cousin's

mission.  Jem, who would know well than himself where to find his

property, have not choose to believe his description of the spot where

he have leave the lotion, and, in the twilight, Louis have find his foot

coil about by the feeler and claw of a formidable monster--no other

than a bottled scorpion, a recent present from Captain Hannaford.  he

do not say how emblematic the scorpion lotion be of that which Jem

have be administer to his wounded spirit all the morning, but he

put the story in so ludicrous a light that Isabel decide that Mr.

Dynevor be ungenerously and ungratefully treat as a butt; and she

turn away in displeasure from the group whom the recital be amusing,

to offer her sympathy to the tutor, and renew the morning's

conversation.









CHAPTER XIII.



FROSTY, but KINDLY.



  go not eastward, go not westward,

  for a stranger whom we know not.

  like a fire upon the hearthstone,

  be a neighbour's homely daughter;

  like the moonlight or the starlight,

  be the handsome of stranger.

                      Legend of Hiawatha.





'what a laboured production have the letter be!  how many copy have

the statesman write! how late have he sit over it at night! how much

more consideration have he spend on it than on paper involve the

success of his life!  a word too much or too little might precipitate

the catastrophe, and the bare notion of his son's marriage with a pupil

of Lady Conway renew and give fresh poignancy to the past.



at first his anxiety be past mention; but he grow restless under

they, and the instinct of go to Mrs. Ponsonby prevail.  at least,

she would know what have transpire from James, or from Fitzjocelyn to

Mrs. Frost.



she have hear of ecstatic letter from both the cousin, and Mary have

be delighted to identify Miss Conway with the Isabel of whom one of

her school friend speak rapturously, but the last letter have beenfrom

James to his grandmother, declare that Lord Ormersfield be

destroy the happiness of the most dutiful of son, who be obedient

even to tameness, and so absurd that there be no bear he.  his

lordship must hear reason, and learn that he be reject the most

admirable creature in existence, her superiority of mind exceed even

her loveliness of person.  he have well beware of tyranny; it be

possible to abuse submission, and who could answer for the consequence

of thwart strong affection?  all the ground Fitzjocelyn have gain

in the last six week have be lose; and for the future, James would

not predict.



'an uncomfortable matter,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, chiefly for the sake of

read her daughter's feeling.  'if it be not in poor Louis's mind

already, his father and James would plant it there by their contrary

effort.'



'oh! I hope it will come right,' say Mary.  'Louis be too good, and

his father too kind, for it not to end well.  and then, mamma, he will

be able to prove, what nobody will believe--that he be constant.'



'you think so, do you?' say her mother, smile.



Mary blush, but answer, 'where he really care, he would be

constant.  his fancy might be take, and he might rave, but he would

never really like what be not good.--If he do think about Miss

Conway, we may trust she be worthy of he.  oh! I should like to see

she!'



Mary's eye light up with an enthusiasm that use to be a stranger to

they.  it be not the over-act indifference nor the tender generosity

of disappointment: it seem more to partake of the fond, unselfish,

elder-sisterly affection that she have always show towards Louis, and

it set her mother quite at ease.



see Lord Ormersfield ride into the terrace, Mary set out for a

walk, that he might have his tete-a-tete freely with her mother.  on

come home, she meet he on the stair; and he speak with a sad

softness and tone of pardon that alarm she so much, that she hasten

to ask her mother whether Louis have really avow an attachment.



'oh no,' say Mrs. Ponsonby; 'he have write a very right-minded

letter, on the whole, poor boy! though he be sure the conway have only

to be know to be appreciate.  rather too true!  it be in his Miss

Fanny hand, stiff and dispirit; and his father have work himself

into such a state of uneasiness, that I think it will end in his going

to ebbscreek at once.'



'o mamma, you willn't let he go and torment Louis?'



'why, Mary, have you be learn of James?  perhaps he would torment

he more from a distance; and besides, I doubt what sort of counsellor

James be likely to make in his present mood.'



'I never could see that James make any difference to Louis,' say Mary.

'I know people think he do, because Louis give up wish and plan

to he; but he be not lead in opinion or principle, as far as I can

see.'



'not unless his own wish go the same way.'



'at least, Lord Ormersfield will see Miss Conway!'



'I be afraid that will do no good.  it will not be for the first time.

Lady Conway have be his dread from the time of his own marriage; and

if she should come to Northwold, he will be in despair. I do think he

must be right; she must be make a dead set at Louis.'



'not Miss Conway,' say Mary.  'I know she must be good, or he would

not endure she for a moment.'



'Mary, you do not know the power of beauty.'



'I have hear of it,' say Mary; 'I have see how Dona Guadalupe be

follow.  but those people be not like Louis.  no, mamma; I think

James might be take in, I don't think Louis could be--unless he have a

very grand dream of his own before his eye; and then it would be his

own dream, not the lady that he see; and by-and-by he would find it

out, and be so vexed!'



'and, I trust, before he have commit himself!'



'Mamma, I willn't have you think Miss Conway anything but up to his

dream!  I know she be.  only think what Jane Drummond say of she!'



when the idea of go to see how matter stand have once occur to

the Earl, he could not stay at home: the ankle and the affection

prey on he by turn, and he write to Sir Miles Oakstead to fix an

early day for the promise visit, as well as to his son, to announce

his speedy arrival.  then he forget the tardiness of cross-country

post, and outrun his letter, so that he find no one to meet he at

Bickleypool; and on drive up to the gate at Ebbscreek, find all

look deserted.  after much knock, Priscilla appear, round-eye

and gasp, and verify his bad fear with 'go to Bochattle.'

however, she explain that only one gentleman be go to dine there;

the other be row he round the point, with grandfather;--they would

soon be back--indeed they ought, for the tide be so low, they would

have to land down by the shingle bar.



she point out where the boat must come in; and thither the Earl

direct his step, feel as if he be go to place himself under

a nutmeg-grater, as he think how James Frost would receive the

imply distrust of his guardianship.



the sunset gleam be fade on the sleepy wave that make but a feint

of breaking, along the shine expanse of moist uncover sand, when

two figure be see progress from the project rock, cast

long shadow before they.  Lord Ormersfield begin to prepare a

mollifying address--but, behold!  be it the effect of light so much to

lengthen Jem's form? nay, be it make he walk with a stick?  a

sudden, unlooked-for hope seize the Earl.  the next minute he have be

recognise; and in the grasp hand and meet eye, all be

forget, save the true, fond affection of father and son.



'I do not expect this pleasure.  they tell I you be dine out.'



'only row Jem to the landing-place.  I tell he to make my excuse.

it be a dinner to half the neighbourhood, and my foot be always

troublesome if I do not lay it up in the evening.'



'I be glad you be prudent,' say his father, dismiss his fear in

his gratification, and proceed to lay his come to the score of his

foot.



Fitzjocelyn do not wish to see through the plea--he be much too happy

in his father's unusual warmth and tenderness, and in the delight of

hospitality.  Mrs. Hannaford be go out, and eatable be scarce;

but a tea-dinner be prepare merrily between Priscilla, the Captain,

and Louis, who glory in display his school-fag accomplishment

with toast, egg, and rasher--hobble between parlour and kitchen,

help Priscilla, joke with the Captain, and wait on his father

so eagerly and joyously as to awaken a sense of adventure and enjoyment

in the Earl himself.  no meal, with Frampton behind his chair, have ever

equalled Fitzjocelyn's cookery or attendance; and Louis's reminiscence

of the penalty he have suffer from his senior for burn toast,

awake like recollection of schoolboy day, hitherto in utter oblivion,

and instead of the intend delicate conversation, father and son find

themselves laugh over a 'tirocinium or review of school.'



still, the subject must be enter on; and when Lord Ormersfield have

mention the engagement to go to Oakstead, he add, 'all be well,

since I have find you here.  let I tell you that I never feel more

grateful nor more relieved than by this instance of regard for my

wish.'



though know the fitful nature of Louis's colour, he would have be

well satisfied not to have call up such an intensity of red, and to

have have some other answer than, 'I wish you see more of they.'



'I see they every year in London.'



'London give so little scope for real acquaintance,' venture Louis

again, with downcast eye.



'you forget that Lady Conway be my sister-in-law.'  Louis would have

speak, but his father add, 'before you be bear, I have full

experience of she.  you must take it on trust that her soft,

prepossess manner belong to she as a woman of the world who cannot

see you without design on you.'



'of course,' say Louis, 'I yield to your express wish; but my aunt

have be very kind to I: and,' he add, after try to mould the

word to their gentle form, 'you could not see my cousin without

be convince that it be the utmost injustice--'



'I do not censure they,' say his father, as he hesitate between

indignation and respect, 'I only tell you, Louis, that nothing could

grieve I more than to see your happiness in the keeping of a pupil of

Lady Conway.'



he meet a look full of consternation, and of struggle between filial

deference and the sense of injustice.  all Louis allow himself to say

be, however, 'surely, when I be her own nephew! when our poverty be a

flagrant fact--she may be acquit of anything but care for I

for--for my mother's sake.'



there be a silence that alarmed Louis, who have never before name his

mother to the Earl.  at last, Lord Ormersfield speak clearly and

sternly, in characteristic succinct sentence, but take breath

between each.  'you shall have no reason to think I prejudiced.  I

will tell you fact.  there be a match which she desire for such

cause as lead she to seek you.  the poverty be great, and she know

it.  on one side there be strong affection; on that which she

influence there be--none whatever.  if there be scruple, she

smother they.  she work on a young innocent mind to act out her

deceit, and without a misgiving on--on his part that his feeling wore

not return, the marriage take place.'



'it could not have be all her own fault,' cry Louis.  'it must have

be a willing instrument--much to blame--'



his father cut he short with sudden severity, such as startle he.

'never say so, Louis.  she be a mere child, educate for that sole

purpose, her most sweet and docile nature waste and pervert.'



'and you know this of your own knowledge?' say Fitzjocelyn, still

strive to find some loophole to escape from such testimony.



the Earl pause, as if to collect himself, then repeat the word,

slowly and decidedly, 'of my own knowledge.  I could not have speak

thus otherwise.'



'may I ask how it end?'



'as those who marry for beauty alone have a right to expect.  there be

neither confidence nor sympathy.  she die early.  I--we--those who

love she as their own life--be thankful.'



Louis perceive the strong effort and great distress with which these

word be utter, and venture no answer, glance hastily through

all his connexion to guess whose history could thus deeply affect his

father; but he be entirely at a loss; and Lord Ormersfield, recover

himself, add, 'say no more of this; but, believe I, it be to spare

you from her manoeuvre that I keep you apart from that family.'



'the Northwold bath have be recommend for Louisa,' say

Fitzjocelyn.  'before we know of your objection, we mention Miss

Faithfull's lodging.'



what the Earl be about to utter, he suppress.



'you cannot look at those girl and name manoeuvring!' cry Louis.



'poor thing.'



after a silence, Lord Ormersfield add, with more anxiety than

prudence, 'set my mind at rest, Louis.  there can have be no harm

do yet, in so short a time.'



'i--don't--know--' say Louis, slowly.  'I have seldom speak to she,

to be sure.  she actually make I shy!  I never see anything half so

lovely.  I cannot help she reign over my thought.  I shall never

believe a word against she, though I cannot dispute what you say of my

aunt.  she be of another mould, I wish you could let I hope that--'



a gesture of despair from his father cut he short.



'I will do whatever you please,' he conclude.



'you will find that time conquer the fancy,' say the Earl, quickly.

'I be relieve to find that you have at least not commit yourself:

it would be no compliment to Mary Ponsonby.'



Louis's lip curl somewhat; but he say no more, and make no

objection to the arrangement which his father proceed to detail.

doubtful of the accommodation of ebbscreek, Lord Ormersfield have

prudently retain his fly, and though Louis, intend to sleep on the

floor, protest that there be plenty of room, he choose to return to

the inn at Bickleypool.  he would call for Louis to-morrow, to take he

for a formal call at Beauchastel; and the day after they would go

together to Oakstead, leave James to return home, about ten day

soon than have be previously concert.



Lord Ormersfield have not be go ten minute, before James's quick

bounding tread be hear far along the dry woodland path. he vault

over the gate, and enter by the open window, exclaim, as he do

so, 'Hurrah!  the deed be do; the letter be off to engage the House

Beautiful.'



'Doom be doom!' be the first word that occur to Louis.  'the lion

and the prince.'



'what's that?'



'there be once a king,' begin Louis, as if the tale be the new in

the world, 'whose son be predestine to be kill by a lion. after

much consideration, his majesty enclose his royal highness in a tower,

warrant wild-beast proof, and forbid the chase to be mention in

his hearing.  the result be, that the lock-up prince die of

look-jaw in consequence of tear his hand with a nail in the picture

of the lion.'



'I shall send that apologue straight to Ormersfield.'



'you may spare that trouble.  my father have be with I all the

evening.'



'oh! his double-ganger visit you.  that account for your freak.'



'double-ganger seldom come in yellow-bodied fly.'



'his lordship in propria persona.  you don't mean it.'



'he be sleep at the 'George' at Bickleypool.  there be a letter

come to-morrow by the post, to say he be come to-day, with every

imaginable civility to you; but I be to go to the rose-colour

pastor's with he on Wednesday.'



'so there's an end of our peace and comfort!'



'I be afraid we have sadly discompose his peace.'



'do you discover whether his warning have the slight foundation?'



'he tell I a history that somewhat account for his distrust of my

aunt.  I think there must be another side to it, and nothing can be

more unjust than to condemn all the family, but it affect he so

exceedingly that I do not wonder at his do so.  he give no name,

but I be sure it touch he very nearly.  can you tell who it could

have be?'  and he narrate enough to make James exclaim, 'it ought to

touch he nearly.  he be talk of himself.'



'Impossible!--my mother!' cry Louis, leap up.



'yes--his own version of his married life.'



'how do you know?  you cannot remember it,' say Louis, though too well

convince, as he recollect the suppress anguish, and the horror

with which all blame of the young wife have be silence.



'I have hear of it again and again.  it be an unhappy, ill-assorted

marriage: she be gay, he be cold.'



'my Aunt Catharine say so?'



'as far as she can blame anything.  your mother be a sweet blossom in

a cold wind.  she love and pity she with all her heart.  your aunt

be talk, this very evening, of your father having carry she

sister to Ormersfield, away from all her family, and one reason of she

desire to go to Northwold be to see those who be with she at last.'



Louis be confound.  'yes! I see,' he say.  'how obtuse not to read

it in his own manner!  how much it explain!' and he silently rest

his brow on his hand.



'depend upon it, there be two side to the story.  I would not be a

pretty, pet, admire girl in his keeping.'



'do you think it mend matter with I to fasten blame on either?' say

Louis, sadly.  'no; I be realize the perception of such a thread of

misery weave into his life, and think how little I have feel for

he.'



'endow he with your own feeling, and then feel for he!'



'no.  I cannot estimate his feeling.  he be of hard, firm stuff

than I; and for that very reason, I suspect, suffer be a more

terrific thing.  I hear the doctor say, when I bear pain badly,

that it would probably do the less future harm: a bad moral, but I

believe it be true of the mental as of the physical constitution.'

answer something between a look and a shrug of James, he muse on,

aloud--'I understand well what the wreck of affection must have be.'



'for my part,' say James, 'I do not believe in the affection that can

tyrannize over and blight a woman.'



'Nay, James! I cannot doubt.  my very name--my having be call by

it, be the more striking in one so fond of usage and precedent. thing

that pass between he and Mrs. Ponsonby while I be ill--much that I

little regarded and ill requite--show what force of love and grief

there must have be.  the cold, grave manner, be the break,

inaccessible edge of the cliff rent asunder.'



'if romance soften the rough edge, you be welcome to it!  I may as

well go to bed!'



'not romance--the sad reality of my poor father's history.  I trust I

shall never treat his wish so lightly--'



Impatient of one-sided sympathy, James exclaim, 'as if you do not

give way to he like a slave!'



'yes, like a slave,' say Louis, gravely.  'I wish to give way like a

son who would try to comfort he for what he have undergo.'



'now, I should have think your feeling would have be for your

mother!'



'if my mother could speak to I,' say Louis, with tremble lip, 'she

would surely bid I to try my utmost, as far as in I lie, to bring

peace and happiness to my father.  I cannot tell where the error may

have be, and I will never ask.  if she be as like to I as they say,

I could understand some of they!  at least, I know that I be doubly

bind to give as little vexation to he as possible, and I trust that

you will not make it hard to I.  you lose your father so early, that

you can hardly estimate--'



'the trial?' say James, willing to give what have pass the air of a

joke.



'exactly so--good night.'









CHAPTER XIV.



new inhabitant.



  sometimes a troop of damsel glad--

  sometimes a curly shepherd lad,

  or long-haired page in crimson clad,

      go by to tower Camelot;

  and sometimes, through the mirror blue,

  the knight come ride two and two.

  she hath no loyal knight and true--

      the Lady of Shalott.

                          TENNYSON.





'oakstead, Oct. 14th, 1847.



'my dear Aunt,--I find that Fitzjocelyn be write to you, but I think

you will wish for a full account of he than can be obtain from his

own letter.  indeed, I should be much oblige if you would kindly

exercise your influence to persuade he that he be not in a condition

to be imprudent with impunity.  Sir Miles Oakstead be absolutely

shocked to see the alteration in his appearance, as well as in his

spirit; and although both our kind host and hostess be most

solicitous on his account, it happen unfortunately that they be at

this juncture quite alone, so that he be without companion of his own

age.  I must not, however, alarm you.  the fact be, that circumstance

have occur which, though he have act in the most exemplary manner,

have harass and distress he a good deal, and his health suffer

from the difficulty of take sufficient exercise. James will triumph

when he hear that I regret having shorten his stay by the sea-side;

for neither the place nor the weather seem to agree with he: he have

have a recurrence of wakeful night, and be very languid.  poor boy!

yesterday he wander out alone in the rain, lose his way, and come

home so fatigued that he sleep for three hour on the sofa, but to-day

he seem well--have more colour, and have be less silent.  we go to

Leffingham Castle from Monday till Thursday, when I shall take he to

London for Hastings to decide whether it be fit for he to return to

Christchurch after the vacation, accord to his own most anxious

wish.  with my love to Mary Ponsonby and her daughter, and good

remembrance to James,



                                     'your affectionate nephew,

                                               'ORMERSFIELD.'





the same envelope contain another letter of many sheet, begin in

a scrawl:--





'scene--rose-colour Pastor's Nest.  table, chair, book, paper,

despatch-box.  the two ex-minister writing and consulting. Viscount

F. look on like a colt run beside its parent at plough, think

that harness leave deep mark, and that he do not like the furrow.



'October 13th, 1847.--That correct date must be a sign that he be

get into harness.



'well, dear Aunt Kitty, to make a transition from the third to the

first person, like Mrs. Norris, you have in this short scene an epitome

of the last fortnight.  Lady Oakstead be an honourable matron, whom I

pity for have I in her way; a man unable to be got rid of by the

lawful exercise of shoot and riding, and with a father always

consult she about he, and watch every look and movement, till

the blood come throb to my temple by the mere attraction of his

eye.  to be watch into a sense of impatience and ingratitude, be a

trial of life for which one be not prepare.  my father and Sir Miles

be very busy; I hang here an anomaly, sit with they as be less

in their way than in Lady Oakstead's, and wonder what I shall be

twenty year hence.  I be sick of the only course of life that will

content my father, and I can see no sunshine likely to brighten it.

but, at least, no one's happiness be at stake but my own.  here be a

kind, cordial letter from Lady Conway, press I to join she at

Scarborough, make expedition, &c.  my father be in such a state about

I, that I believe I could get his consent to anything, but I suppose

it would not be fair, and I have say nothing to he as yet.  on Monday

we go to Leffingham, which, I hear, be formality itself.  after that,

more state visit, unless I can escape to Oxford.  my father fancy I

not well enough; but pray unite all the force of the Terrace to

impress that nothing else will do I any good.  drag about in this

dreary, heartless way be all that ail I, and read for my degree

would be the good cure.  I mean to work hard for honour, and, if

possible, delude myself with hope of success.  work be the need.

here, there be this one comfort.  there be no one to talk to, no bird

in last year's nest, son absent, daughter dispose of, but,

unluckily, the Pastoress, under a mistaken sense of kindness, have ask

the Vicar's son to walk with I, and he be always lie in wait,--an

ensign in a transition state between the sheepish schoolboy and the

fast man, with an experience of three month of depot.  having rouse

he from the pristine form, I regret the alternative.



'do I ever write so savage a letter?  don't let it vex you, or I willn't

send it.  what a bull!  there be such a delectable Scotch mist, that no

one will suspect I of go out; and I shall actually cheat the

Ensign, and get a walk in solitude to hearten I for the dismal state

dinner party of the evening.



'October 14th.--Is it in the book of fate that I should always treat

this rose-colour pastor like a carrion crow?  I have do it again!

and it have but bring out more of my father's marvellous kindness and

patience.



'I plunge into the Scotch mist unsuspected and unpursue.  the visible

ebullition of discontent have so much disgusted I that I must need see

whether anything could be do with it, and fairly face the matter, as

I can only do in a walk.  Pillow counsel be feverish and tumultuous;

one be hardly master of oneself.  the soft, cool, mist-laden air, heavy

but incense-breathing, be a far more friendly adjunct in the quiet

decay of nature--mournful, but not foul nor corrupt, because man have

not spoil it.  it suit I well than a sunny, glare day, such as

I use to revel in, and the brightness of which, last spring, make I

pine to be in the free air.  such day be past with I; I have well

know that they be, and not strive after they.  personal happiness be

the lure, not the object, in this world.  I have my Northwold home, and

I be begin to see that my father's comfort depend on I as I

little imagine, and sufficiently to sweeten any sacrifice.  so I have

write to refuse Scarborough, for there be no use in try to combine

two thing, please my father and myself.  I wish the determination

may last; but mine have never be good for much, and you must help I.



'neither thinking nor fog conduce to see where I be go; and

when my ankle begin to give out, and I be go to turn, I run into a

hedge, which, loom through the mist, I have be take for a fine

range of distant mountain--rather my way of deal with other

object.  be without a horse on whose neck to lay the rein, I could

only coast the hedge, hope it might lead I back to Oakstead Park,

which I have abandon in my craving for space and dread of be dog

by the Ensign.  but the treacherous hedge lead I nowhere but to a

horsepond; and when I have struggle out of the adjacent mire, and

attain a rise ground, I could only see about four yard square of

bare down, all the rest be grey fog.  altogether, the scene be

worth something.  I hear what I think the tinkling of a sheep bell

through the cloud, which dull the sound like cotton wool; I pursue

the call, when anon, the veil begin to grow thin, and reveal, look

just like a transparency, a glimpse of a little village in a valley

almost under my foot, tree, river, church-spire and all, and the bell

become clear, and show I what kind of flock it be mean for.  I

turn that way, and have just find a path lead down the steep, when

down close the cloud--a natural dissolve view--leave I wonder

whether it have be mirage or imagination, till presently, the curtain

draw up in earnest.  out come, not merely form, but colour, as I have

see a camera clear itself--blue sky, purple hill, russet and orange

wood, a great elm green pick out with yellow, a mass of brown oak,

a scarlet maple, a beech grove, skirt a brilliant water meadow, with

a most reflective stream run through it, and give occasion for a

single arched bridge, and a water mill, with a wheel draperie with

white foam; two swan disport on the water (I would not declare they

be not geese), a few cottony flake of mist hang over damp

corner, the hill rise green, with the bright whitewash cottage of

this district, on the side a rich, red, sandstone-colour church, late

architecture, tower rather mouldering--all the more picturesque;

churchyard, all white headstone and ochreous sheep, surmount by a

mushroom-shape dark yew tree, rail in with intensely white rail,

the whole glowing in the parting coup-de-soleil of a wet day, every

tear of every leaf glistening, and everything indescribably lustrous.

it be a picture that one's mental photograph ought to stamp for life,

and the cheering and interest it give, no one but you can understand. I

wish for you, I know.  it look so poor in word.



'after the service, I lay hold of the urchin whose hearty stare have

most remind I of Tom Madison, and give he a shilling to guide I

back to Oakstead, a wise measure, for down come the cloud, blot all

out like the Castle of St. John, and by the time I come home, it be

pitch dark and rain hard, and my poor father be imagine I at the

foot of another precipice.  I be hope to creep up in secret, but

they all come out, fall upon I, Lady Oakstead send I tea, and order

I to rest; and so handsomely do I obey, that when next I open my

eye, and see my father wait, as I think, for I to go down to

dinner with he, I find he have just come up after the lady have

quit the dining-room.  so kind and so little annoyed do he seem,

that I shake myself, to be certify that I have break no more bone,

but it be all sheer forbearance and consideration--enough to go to

one's heart--when it be the very thing to vex he most.  with great

penitence, I go down, and the first person I encounter be the very

curate I have see in my _mist_erious village, much as if he have walk

out of a story book. on fraternize, I find he to be a friend of

Holdsworth.  Lady Oakstead be go to take I, this afternoon, to see

his church, &c., thoroughly; and behold, I learn from he that she be a

notable woman for do good in her parish, never so happy as in

trot to cottage, though her good deed be always in the

background. thereupon, I venture to attack she this morning on cottage

garniture, and obtain the very counsel I want about oven and

piggery, we begin to get on together, and she be to put I up to all

manner of information that I want particularly.  I must go now, not to

keep she waiting, never mind the first half of my letter--I have no

time to cancel it now.  I find my father want to put in a note: don't

believe a word that he say, for I be much well to-day, body and mind.





     Goosey, goosey gander,

     where shall we wander,





anywhere, everywhere, to remain still

                     'your most affectionate,

                                    'fit gosling.'





Dear Aunt Kitty!  one of her failing be never to be able to keep a

letter to herself.  she fairly cry over her boy's trouble; and Mrs.

Ponsonby would not have know whether to laugh or cry but for James's

doleful prediction, which be so sentimental as to turn even his

grandmother to the laugh party, and leave he no sympathizer but

Mary, who think it very hard and cruel to deride Louis when he be

try so earnestly to be good and suffer so much.  why should they

all--Aunt Catharine herself--be merry over his thinking the spring-day

of his life past away, and try so nobly and patiently to resign

himself?



'it be the way of the world, Mary,' say James.  'People think they be

laugh at the mistaking a flock of sheep for the army of Pentapolin

of the naked arm, when they be really sneer at the lofty spirit

take the weak side.  they involve the sublime temper in the

ridiculous accident, and laugh both alike to scorn.'



'not mamma and Aunt Catharine,' say Mary.  'besides, be not half the

harm in the world do by not see where the sublime be invade by

the ridiculous?'



'I see nothing ridiculous in the matter,' say James.  'his father have

demand an unjustifiable sacrifice.  fitzjocelyn yield and suffer.'



'I do believe Lord Ormersfield must relent; you see how pleased he be,

say that Louis's conduct be exemplary.'



'he would sacrifice a dozen son to one prejudice!'



'perhaps Miss Conway will overcome the prejudice.  I be sure, if he

think Louis's conduct exemplary, Louis must have the sort of happiness

he use to wish for most, and his father would do his very good to

gratify he.'



that sentence be Mary's cheval de bataille in her discussion with

James, who could never be alone with she without broach the subject.

the two cousin often walk together during James's month at

Northwold.  the town church be not very efficiently serve, and be

only open in the morning and late evening on Sundays, without any

afternoon prayer, and James be often in the habit of walk to

Ormersfield church for the three o'clock service, and ask Mary to

join he.  their return be almost always occupy in description of

Miss Conway's perfection, and Mary learn to believe that two being,

evidently compound of every creature's good, must be destine for

each other.



'how well it be,' she think, 'that I do not stand in the way.  oh!

how unhappy and puzzle I should be now.  how thankful I be that dear

mamma understand all for we so well!  how glad I be that Louis be

wait patiently, not do anything self-willed.  as long as his

father say he be exemplary, it must make one happy, and mamma will

convince Lord Ormersfield.  it will all turn out well; and how

delightful it will be to see he quite happy and settle!'



Mary and her mother have by this time take root at Dynevor Terrace, and

form an integral part of the inhabitant.  their newspaper go the

round of the house, their name be send to the Northwold book-club and

enrol among the subscriber to local charity, and Miss Mercy

Faithfull find that their purse and kitchen would bear deep haul

than she could in general venture upon.  Mary be very happy, work

under she, and be a welcome and cheerful visitor to the many sick,

aged, and sorrowful to whom she introduce she.



if Mary could only have induce Aunt Melicent to come and see with her

own eye, to know Mrs. Frost and the Faithfull sister, and, above all,

to see mamma in her own house, she think one of her most eager wish

would have be fulfil.  but invite as she and her mother might,

they could not move Miss Ponsonby from Bryanstone Square.  railroad

and country be both her dread; and she be not inclined, to overcome

her fear on behalf of a sister-in-law whom she forgave, but could not

love.



'you must give it up, my dear,' say Mrs. Ponsonby.  'I let the time

for our amalgamation pass.  Melicent and I be not tolerant of each

other.  since she have give you back to I, I can love and respect she

as I never do before; but a little breach in youth become too wide in

age for either repentance or your affection, my dear, to be able to

span it.'



Mary see what a relief it be that the invitation be not accept,

and though she be disappoint, she blame herself for having wish

otherwise.  Tranquillity be such a boon to that weary spirit, each

day be so much gain that go by without the painful, fluttered look

of distress, and never have Mrs. Ponsonby have so much quiet enjoyment

with her daughter and her aunt.  Mary be perfectly content in see

she well, and have no aim beyond the present trivial, commonplace

life, with so many to help by little ordinary service, and her mother

serene and comfortable.  Placid, and yet active, she go busily

through the day, and do not forget the new pleasure to which Louis

have open her mind.  she take up his book without a pang, and would

say, briskly and unblushingly, to her mother, how strange it be that

before she have be with he, she have never like at all, what she now

care for so much.



the winter portend no lack of excitement.  Miss Faithfull's room

be engage.  when Miss Mercy run in breathless to Mrs. Frost with the

tiding, she little know what feeling be excite; the hope and fear,

the doubt and curiosity; the sense of guilt towards the eld nephew,

in not prevent what she could not prevent, the rejoicing on behalf

of the young nephew; the ladylike scorn of the motive that bring

the lodger; yet the warm feeling towards what be dear to Louis and

admire by Jem.



what a flap and battering of carpet on the much-endure stump!

what furious activity of Martha!  what eager help of little Charlotte,

who be in a perfect trepidation of delight at the rumour that a real

beauty, fit for a heroine, be come!  what trot hither and

thither of Miss Mercy!  what netting of blind and stitch of chintz

by Miss Salome!  what envy and contempt on the part of other landlady

on hear that Miss Faithfull's apartment be engage for the whole

winter!  what an anxious progress be Miss Mercy's, when she conduct

Mrs. Frost and Mary to a final inspection! and what be her triumph

when Mary, sit down on the well-stuff arm-chair, pronounce that

people who would not come there do not understand what comfort be.



every live creature gaze--Mrs. Frost through her blind, Mary behind

her hydrangea in the balcony, Charlotte from her attic window,--when

the lodger disembark in full force--two lady, two child, one

governess, three maid, two man, two horse, one King Charles's

spaniel!  let it be what it might, it be a grand windfall for the Miss

Faithfulls.



Mary's heart throb as the first carriage thunder upon the gravel,

and a sudden swelling check her voice as she be about to exclaim

'there she be!' when the second lady emerge, and move up the garden

path.  she be veil and mantle; but accustom as be Mary's eye to

the spanish figure and walk, the wonderful grace of movement and

deportment strike she as the very thing her eye have miss ever since

she leave Peru.  what the rest of the stranger be like, she know not;

she have only eye for the creature who have win Louis's affection, and

doubtless deserve it, as all else that be precious.



'so they be come, Charlotte,' say Mrs. Frost, as the maiden demurely

bring in the kettle.



'yes, ma'am;' and stoop to put the kettle on, and grow

carnation-colour over the fire.  'oh, ma'am, I never see such a young

lady.  she be all one as the king's sister in the Lord of the Isles!'



while the object of all this enthusiasm be arrive at the Terrace,

she be chiefly conscious that Sir Roland be sink down on the

rampart of Acre, desperately wound in the last terrible siege; and

she be consider whether palmer or minstrel should carry the tiding

of his death to Adeline.  it be her refuge from the unpleasant

feeling, with which she view the experiment of the Northwold bath

upon Louisa's health.  as the carriage stop, she cast one glance at

the row of house, they strike she as dreary and dilapidated; she draw

her mantle close, shiver, and walk into the house.  'small room,

dingy furniture-that be mamma's affair,' pass through her mind, as

she make a courteous acknowledgment of Miss Mercy's greeting, and stand

by the drawing-room fire.  'Roland slowly awake from his swoon; a

white-robe old man, with a red eight-point cross on his breast, be

bend over he.  he know himself to be in--I cann't remember which

tower the Hospitallers defend.  I wonder whether Marianne can find

the volume of Vertot.'



'Isabel, Isabel!' shriek Virginia, who, with Louisa, have be roam

everywhere, 'here be a discovery in the school-room!  come!'



it be an old framed print of a large house, as much of a sham castle

as the nature of thing would permit; and beneath be the word

'Cheveleigh, the seat of Roland Dynevor, Esquire.'



'there!' cry Virginia; 'you see it be a castle, a dear old feudal

castle!  think of that, Isabel!  why, it be as good as see Sir

Roland himself, to have see Mr. Dynevor Frost disinherit.  oh! if

his name be only Roland, instead of that horrid James!'



'his initial be J. R.,' say Isabel.  'it be a curious coincidence.'



'it only want an Adeline to have the castle now,' say Louisa.  'oh!

there shall be an heiress, and she shall be beautiful, and he shalln't go

crusading--he shall marry she.'



the sister have not be aware that the school-room maid, who have be

send on to prepare, be busy unpack in a corner of the room. 'they

say, Miss Louisa,' she interpose, 'that Mr. Frost be go to be

married to a great heiress--his cousin, Miss Ponsonby, at No. 7.'



Isabel requite the forwardness by silently leave the room with the

sister, and Virginia apologize for not having be more cautious than

to lead to such subject.  'it be all gossip,' she say, angrily;  'Mr.

Dynevor would never marry for money.'



'Nay, let we find in her an Adeline,' say Isabel.



the next day, Miss Mercy have hurry into no. 7, to declare that the

lady be all that be charming, but that their servant give

themselves air beyond credence, especially the butler, who play the

guitar, and insist on a second table; when there be a peal of the

bell, and Mary from her post of observation 'really believe it be

Lady Conway herself;' whereupon Miss Mercy, without listen to

persuasion, pop into the back drawing room to effect her retreat.



Lady Conway be all eagerness and cordiality, enchant to renew she

acquaintance, venture so early a call in hope of prevail on Mrs.

Ponsonby to come out with she to take a drive.  she conjure up

recollection of Mary's childhood, declare that she look to she for

draw Isabel out, and be extremely kind and agreeable.  Mary think

her delightful, with something of Louis's charm of manner; and Mrs.

Ponsonby believe it no acting, for Lady Conway be sincerely affable

and affectionate, with great warmth and kindness, and might have be

all that be excellent, have she start into life with a different code

of duty.



so there be to be an intimacy.  for Fitzjocelyn's sake, as well as for

the real good-nature of the advance, Mrs. Ponsonby would not shrink

back more than befit her self-respect.  of that quality she have less

than Mrs. Frost, who, with her innate punctilious spirit, avoid all

favour or patronage.  it be curious to see the gentle old lady fire

up with all the dignity of the Pendragons, at the least peril of

incur an obligation, and, though perfectly courteous, easy, and

oblige, she contrive to keep at a great distance than if she have

be mistress of Cheveleigh.  there, she would have remember that

both she and Lady Conway be aunt to Louis; at Northwold, her care

be to become beholden for nothing that she could not repay.



Lady Conway do she good, when drive out with Mrs. Ponsonby, to draw

she into confidence.  there be tender reminiscence from her heart of

poor sweet Louisa, tearful inquiry respect she last week,

certaintie that Mrs. Ponsonby have be of great use to she; for, poor

darling, she have be thoughtless--so much to turn her head.  there be

cause for regret in their own education--there be then so much less

attention to essential.  Lady Conway could not have bear to bring up

her own girl as she herself and her sister have grow up; she have

choose a governess who make religion the first object, and she be

delighted to see they all so attach to she; she have never have any

fear of their be too serious--people have learn to be reasonable

now, do not insist on the impracticable, do not denounce moderate

gaiety, as have once be do to the alarm of poor Louisa.



Sweetest Louisa's son!  she could not speak too warmly of he, and she

declare herself highly gratify by Mr. Mansell's opinion of his

modesty, attention, and good sense.  Mr. Mansell be an excellent

judge, he have such as opinion of Lord Ormersfield's public character.



and, at a safe interval, she mention the probability that Beauchastel

might be settle on Isabel, if she should marry so as to please Mr.

Mansell: he care for connexion more than for wealth; if he have a

weakness, it be for rank.



Mrs. Ponsonby think it fair that the Earl should be aware of these

fact.  he smile ironically.



he leave his card with his sister-in-law, and, to have it over while

Louis be safe at Oxford, invite the party to spend a day at

Ormersfield, with Mrs. Frost to entertain they.  he be far too

considerate of the feeling that he attribute to the Ponsonbys to ask

they to come; and as three out of the six in company be more or less

in a state of haughtiness and coolness, Lady Conway's grace fail

entirely; and poor innocent Virginia and Louisa protest that they have

never spend so dull a day, and that they could not believe their cousin

Fitzjocelyn could belong to such a tiresome place.



Isabel, who have undergo more dull day than they have, contrive to

get through it by torture Adeline with utter silence of all tiding

from the East, and by a swarm of suitor, with the fantastic Viscount

foremost.  she never be awake from her dream until Mr. Holdsworth come

to dinner, and be so straightforward and easy that he thaw every one.



afterwards, he never fail to return an enthusiastic reply to the

question that all the neighbourhood be ask each other--namely,

whether they have see Miss Conway.



no one be a more devoted admirer than the Lady of Eschalott, whose

webs have a bad chance when there be one glimpse of Miss Conway to be

obtain from the window, and the vision of whose heart be that Mrs.

Martha might some day let she stand in the housemaid's closet, to

behold her idol issue forth in the full glory of an evening dress--a

thing Charlotte have read of, but never see anything near to it than

Miss Walby come to tea, and her own Miss Clara in the scanty of

all white muslin.



but Mrs. Martha be in an unexampled state of vixenish crossness, and

snap venomously at mild Mrs. Beckett for the kind offer of

spare Charlotte to assist she in her multiply labour.  she seem

to be run after time all day long, with five dinner and tea upon

her hand, poor woman, and allow herself not the slight

relaxation, except to rush in for a few second to no. 7, to indulge

herself by inveigh against the whole of the fine servant; and yet

she be so proud of have lodger at all, that she hate they for

nothing so much as for threaten to go away.



the object of her bitter invective be the fastidious butler, Mr.

Delaford, who by her account could do nothing for himself, grudge she

mistresse their very sit-room, drink wine with the lady' maid

like a gentleman, and order fish for the second table; talk of

having quit a duke, and submit to live with Lady Conway because

he compassionate unprotected female, and my Lady be dependent on he

for the care of Sir Walter in the holiday.  to crown his offence, he

never clean his own plate, but draw sketch and play the guitar!

moreover, Mrs. Martha have her notion that he be make that sickly

frenchified maid of Miss Conway's much too fond of he; and as to his

call himself Mr. Delaford--why, Mrs. Martha have a shrewd suspicion

that he be some kin to her first cousin's brother-in-law's shopman's

wife in Tottenham-court-road, whose name she know be Ford, and who have

be pick out of a gutter!  the establishment of such a fact appear

as if it would be the triumph of Mrs. Martha's life.  in the meantime,

she more than hint that she would wear herself to the bone rather

than let Charlotte Arnold into the house; and Jane, generally

assenting, though seldom go all length, use to divert the

conversation by comparison with Mr. Frampton's politeness and

consideration.  he never come to no. 5 to give trouble, only to help.



the invective produce on Charlotte's mind an effect the reverse of

what be intend.  Mr. Delaford, a fine gentleman than Mr. Frampton

and Mr. Poynings, must be a wonder of nature.  the guitar--redolent of

serenade and spanish cloak--oh! but once to see and hear it! the very

rudeness of Mrs. Martha's word, so often repeat, give she a feeling

in favour of their object.  she have know Mrs. Martha unjust before.

Poor Tom! if he have only be a Spaniard, he would have sing about the

white dove--his pretty thought--in a serenade, but then he might have

poignarde Mr. James in his passion, which would have be less

agreeable--she suppose he have forget she long ago--and so much the

well!



it be a Sunday evening.  every one be go to church except

Charlotte, who be leave to keep house.  though November, it be not

cold, the day have be warm and showery, and the full moon have rise in

the most glorious brightness, ride in a sky the blue of which look

almost black by contrast with her brilliancy.  Charlotte stand at the

back door, gaze at the moon walk in brightness, and wander into

the garden, to enjoy what to she be beyond all other delight, read

Gessner's death of Abel by moonlight.  there be quite sufficient

light, even if she have not know the idyll almost by heart; and in a

trance of dreamy, undefined delight, she stand beside the dark

ivy-cover wall, each leaf glistening in the moonbeam, which shed a

subdue pearliness over her white apron and collar, pale but give a

shadowy refinement to her feature, and impart a peculiar soft golden

gloss to the fair braid of hair on her modest brow.



a sound of open the back gate make she give one of her violent

start; but before she could spring into the shelter of the house, she

be check by the civil word, 'I beg your pardon, I be mistaken--I

take this for no. 8.'



'three door off--' begin Charlotte, discover, with a shy thrill of

surprise and pleasure, that she have be actually accost by the great

Mr. Delaford; and the moonlight, quite as become to he as to she,

make he an absolute italian count, tall, dark, pale, and whisker.

he do not go away at once, he linger, and say softly, 'I perceive

that you partake my own predilection for the moonlight hour.'



Charlotte would have be delighted, have it not be a great deal

hard to find an answer than if the old Lord have ask she a question;

but she simper and blush, which probably do just as well.  Mr.

Delaford suppose she know the poet's lines--



     'how sweet the moonlight sleep on yonder bank--'





'oh yes, sir--so sweet!' exclaim the Lady of Eschalott, under her

breath, though yonder bank be only represent by the chequer-work of

Mrs. Ponsonby's latticed trelli; and Mr. Delaford proceed to quote

the whole passage, in a deep mellow voice, but with a great deal of

affectation; and Charlotte gasp, 'so beautiful!'



'I perceive that you have a fine taste for poetry,' say Mr. Delaford,

so graciously, that Charlotte presume to say, 'oh, sir! be it true

that you can play the guitar?'



he smile upon her tone of veneration, and reply, 'a trifle--a little

instrumental melody be a great resource.  if his poor performance

would afford she any gratification, he would fetch his guitar.'



'oh, sir--thank you--a psalm-tune, perhaps.  it be Sunday--if you would

be so kind.'



he smile superciliously as he regret that his music be not of that

description, and Charlotte feel ready to sink into the earth at the

indignity she have do the guitar in forget that it could accompany

anything but such song as Valancourt sing to Emily.  she beg his

pardon humbly; and he declare that he have a great respect for a lady's

scruple, and should be happy to meet she another evening.  'if Mrs.

Beckett would allow she,' say Charlotte, overpower with gratitude:

'there would be the moon full to-morrow--how delightful!'  he could

spare a short interval between the dinner and the tea; and with this

promise he took leave.



Honest little Charlotte tell Mrs. Beckett the whole story, and all her

eager wish for to-morrow evening; and Jane sigh and puzzle

herself, and know it would make Martha very angry, but could not help

be goodnature.  Jane have a great deference for Martha's strong,

rough character; but then Martha have never live in a great house, and

do not know 'what be what,' nor the difference between 'low people'

and upper servant.   so Jane act chaperon as far as her easy

discretion go, and have it to say to her own conscience, and to the

angry Martha, that he never say one word that need offend any young

woman.



there be a terrible storm below-stair in the House Beautiful at the

idea of Delaford take up with Mrs. Frost's little

kitchen-maid--Delaford, the lady's-maid killer par excellence, wherever

Lady Conway go, and whose coquetry whiten the cheek of Miss

Conway's poor Marianne, the object of his attention whenever he have no

one else in view.  he have not know Charlotte to be a kitchen-maid when

he first behold she, and her fair beauty and retire grace have have

full scope, assist by her veneration for himself; and now the scorn

of the grand Mrs. Fanshawe, and the amusement of tease Marianne, only

make he the more bent on patronize 'the little rustic,' as he call

she.  he be deferential to Mrs. Beckett, who feel herself in her

element in discuss plate, china, and large establishment with he;

and he lend book, talk poetry, and play the guitar to Charlotte,

and even begin to take her portrait, with her mouth all on one side.



Delaford be an admirable servant, say the whole Conway family; he be

trust as entirely as he represent, and Lady Conway often give he

charge over her son in sport and expedition beyond lady'

management: he be, in effect, nearly the ruler of the household, and

never allow his lady to go anywhere if he do not approve.  if it have

not be for the 'little rustic's' attraction, perhaps he might have

make strong demonstration against the House Beautiful.  little do

Miss Faithfull know the real cause of she receive or retain she

lodger.









CHAPTER XV.



MOTLEY the only wear.



  for well far than passion's glow,

    or aught of worldly choice,

  to listen his own will to know,

    and, listening, hear his voice.

                  the Angel of Marriage--REV. I. WILLIAMS.





the friendship that grow up out of sight be far more effective than

anything that Lady Conway could accomplish on the stage.  Miss King and

the Miss Faithfulls find each other out at once, and the governess be

entreat to knock at the door at the bottom of the stair whenever her

pupil could spare she.



then come eager wish from her pupil to be admit to the snuggery,

and they be invite to see the curiosity.  Isabel believe the

'very good' be find, and come with her sister.  she beg to be

allow to help in their parish work, under Miss Mercy Faithfull's

guidance; and Sir Roland stand still, while she fancy she be

learn to make little frock, but really listen to their

revelation of so new a world.  she go out with Miss Mercy--she

undertake a class and a district, and begin to be happy than ever

before; though how much of the absolute hard toil devolve on Miss

King, neither she nor the governess understand.



this lead to intercourse with Mary Ponsonby; and Isabel be a very

different person in that homely, friendly parlour, from the lofty,

frigid Miss Conway of the drawing-room.  cold hauteur melt before

Mary's frank simplicity, and they become friend as fast as two lady

could beyond the age of romantic plunge, where on one side there be

good-will without enthusiasm, on the other enthusiasm and reserve.

they call each other 'Miss Conway' and 'Miss Ponsonby,' and exchange

no family secret; but they be, for all that, fast friend than

young lady under twenty might imagine.



one winter's day, the crisp, exhilarate frost have lure they far

along the high road beyond Mr. Calcott's park paling, talk over

Isabel's favourite theme, what to wish for her little brother, when the

sound of a large clock strike three make Isabel ask where she be.



'it be the stable clock at Ormersfield,' say Mary, 'do you not know

we be on that road?'



'no, I do not.'  and Isabel would have turn, but Mary beg she to

take a few step up the lane, that they might see how Lord

Fitzjocelyn's new cottage look.  Isabel comply, and add, after a

pause, 'be you one of Lord Fitzjocelyn's worshipper?'



'I should not like to worship any one,' say Mary, look

straightforward.  'I be very fond of he, because I have know he all

my life.  and he be so good!'



'then I think I may consider you exempt!  it be the only fault I have

to find with Northwold.  you be the only person who do not rave

about he--the only person who have not mention his name.'



'have I not?  I think that be very unkind of me--'



'very kind to I,' say Isabel.



'I mean, to he,' say Mary, blushing; 'if you think that I do not

think most highly of him--'



'don't go on!  I be just go to trust to you for a calm,

dispassionate statement of his merit, and I shall soon lose all my

faith in you.'



'my mother--' begin Mary; but just then Lord Ormersfield come forth

from one of the cottage, and encounter the young lady.  he

explain that Fitzjocelyn be come home next week, and he have come

to see how his last order have be execute, since Frampton and the

carpenter have sometimes choose to think for themselves.  he be very

anxious that all should be right, and, after a few word, reveal a

perplexity about oven and boiler, in which Mary's counsel would be

invaluable.  so, with apology and ceremony to Miss Conway, they

enter, and Isabel stand wait in the dull kitchen, smell of raw

plaster, wonder at the extreme eagerness of the discussion with the

mason over the yawning boiler, the Earl refer to his son's letter,

hold it half-a-yard off, and at last give it to Mary to decipher

by the wane light.



so far have it wane, that when the fixture have all be inspect,

Lord Ormersfield declare that the young lady must not return alone,

and insist on escort they home.  every five minute some one

thought of something to say: there be an answer, and by good luck a

rejoinder; then all die away, and Mary ponder how her mother would

in her place have do something to draw the two together, but she

could not.  she fear the walk have make Isabel more adverse to all

connect with Ormersfield than even previously; for the Ormersfield

road be avoid, and the question as to Fitzjocelyn's merit be never

renew.



Mary think his cause would be safe in the hand of his great

champion, who be come home from Oxford with he, and be to occupy

his vacation in act tutor to little Sir Walter Conway.  Louis come,

the day after his return, with his father, to make visit in the

Terrace, and be as well-behave and uninteresting as morning calling

could make he.   he be look very well--his general health quite

restore, and his ankle much well; though he be still forbid to

ride, and could not walk far.



'you must come and see I, Aunt Kitty,' he say; 'I be not available

for come in to see you.  I'm read, and I've make a resignation of

myself,' he add, with a slight blush, and debonnaire shrug, glance

to see that his father be occupy with James.



they be to dine with Lady Conway on the following Tuesday.  in the

interim, no one beheld they except Jem, who walk to Ormersfield once

or twice for some skating for his little pupil Walter, and come back

report that Louis have sell himself, body and soul, to his father.



Clara come home, a degree more civilized, and burn to confide to

Louis that she have think of his advice, have be the less miserable

for it, and have much more on which to consult he.  she could not

conceive why even grandmamma would not consent to she accompany the

skater; though she be give herself credit for protest that she

be not go on the ice, only to keep poor Louis company, while the

other be skate.



she be oblige to defer her hope of see he until Tuesday, when

she have be ask to drink tea in the school-room, and appear in the

evening.  Mrs. Frost have consent, as a means of exempt herself

from the party.  and Clara's incipient feminine nature begin to flutter

at her first gaiety.  the event be magnify by a present from Jem, of

a broad rose-colour sash and white muslin dress, with a caution that

she be not to consider the tuck up to the waist as a provision for

future growth.



she fly to exhibit the finery to the Miss Faithfulls, and to consult

on the making-up, and, to her consternation, be catch by Miss Conway

kneeling on the floor, be measure by Miss Salome.  to Isabel, there

be a sort of touch novelty in the simplicity that could glory in

pink ribbon when embellish by be a brother's gift; she look on

with calm pleasure at such homely excitement, and even fetch some

bow of her own, for example, and offer to send Marianne down with

pattern.



Clara be enchant to recognise in Miss Conway the vision of the

Euston-square platform.  the grand, quiet style of beauty be exactly

fit to impress a mind like her, so strongly imbue with sentiment

like those of Louis, and regard Isabel as necessarily Louis's

destiny, she begin to adore she accordingly, with a girl-reverence,

quite as profound, far more unselfish, and little less ardent than that

of man for woman.  that a female vision of perfection should engross

Clara's imagination, be a step towards soften she; but, poor child!

the dawn of womanhood be to come in a painful burst.



surprise at her own aspect, with her light hair dress by Jane and

wreathe with ivy leave by grandmamma, and her skirt so full that she

could not refrain from make a gigantic cheese, she be inspect and

admire by granny and Jane, almost approve by Jem himself; and,

exalt by the consciousness of be well-dress, she repair to the

school-room tea at the House Beautiful.



Virginia and Louisa be, she think, very poor imitation of Louis's

countenance--the one too round, the other too thin and sallow; but both

they, their brother, and Miss King be so utterly unlike anything at

school, that she be at once at ease, and begin talk with Walter

over schoolboy fun, in which he could not be a great proficient than

herself.  Walter strike up a violent friendship for she on the spot,

and take to call she 'a fellow,' in oblivion of her sex; and

Virginia and Louisa fall into ecstasy of laughter, which encourage

Clara and Walter to compote with each other which should most astonish

their weak mind.



in the drawing-room, Lady Conway speak so graciously, that Clara, be

quite distressed at look over her head.  Mary look somewhat

oppress, say her mother have not be so well that day; and she be

disposed to keep in the background, and occupy herself with Clara; but

it be quite contrary to the Giraffe's notion to be engross by any

one when Louis be come.  as if she have divine Mary's intention of

keep she from importune he, she be continually gaze at the

door, ready at once to claim his attention.



at first, the gentleman only appear in a black herd at the door,

where Mr. Calcott have stop Lord Ormersfield short, in his eagerness

to impress on he the view of the county on a police-bill in course of

preparation for the next session.  the other magistrate congregate

round; but James Frost and Sydney Calcott have slip past, to the

piano where Lady Conway have send Miss Calcott and Isabel.  'why do not

Fitzjocelyn, come too?' be murmur by the young group in the recess

opposite the door; and when at last he become visible, lean against

the wall, listen to the Squire, Virginia declare he be go to

serve they just as he use at Beauchastel.



'oh, no! he shan't--I'll rescue he!' exclaim Clara; and leap up

to her cameleopard attitude, she spring forward, and, with a voice

audible in an unlucky lull of the music, she exclaim, 'Louis! Louis!

don't you see that I be here?'



as he turn, with a look of surprise and almost rebuke, her own word

come back to her ear as they must have sound to other; her face

become poppy-colour, nothing light but her flaxen eyebrow; and she

scarcely give her hand to be shake.  'no, I do not know you be

come,' he say; and almost partake her confusion, as he feel all

eye upon she, he look in vain for a refuge for she.



how welcome be Mary's kind face and quiet gesture, cover poor

Clara's retreat as she sink into a dark nook, shelter by the old

black cabinet!  Louis thank Mary by a look, as much as to say, 'just

like you,' and be glad to perceive that James have not be present.

he have go to ask Miss Faithfull to supply the miss stanzas of a

Jacobite song, and just then return, say that she know they, but

could not remember they.



Fitzjocelyn, however, cap the fragment, and illustrate it with some

anecdote that interest Miss Conway.  James have great hope that she

be go to see he to the good advantage, but still there be a great

drawback in the presence of Sydney Calcott.  idolize at home,

successful abroad, young Calcott have enough of the prig to be a

perpetual irritation to Jem Frost, all the more because he could never

make Louis resent, nor accept, as other than natural, the goodnature

supercilious patronage of the steady distinguished senior towards the

idle junior.



Jacobite legend and Stuart relic would have make Miss Conway

oblivious of everything else; but Sydney Calcott must need divert the

conversation from that channel by say, 'ah! there Fitzjocelyn be in

his element.  he be a perfect handbook to the byway of history.'



'for the diffusion of useless knowledge?' say Louis.



'illustrate by the examination, when the only fact you could adduce

about the Argonauts be that Charles V. found the order of the Golden

Fleece.'



'I beg your pardon; it be his great-grandfather.  I have read my

Quentin Durward too well for that.'



'I suspect,' say Isabel, 'that we have all rather be examine in our

Quentin Durward than our Charles V.



'ah!' say young Calcott, 'I have all my date at my finger' end when

I go up for the modern history prize.  now my sister could beat I.'



'a proof of what I always say,' observe Louis, 'that it be lose labour

to read for an examination.'



'from personal experience?' ask Sydney.



'a Strasburg goose nail down and cram before a fire, become a

Strasburg pie,' say Louis.



never do Isabel look more bewildered, and Sydney do not seem at once

to catch the meaning.  James add, 'a goose destine to fulfil the

term of existence be not cram, but the pie stimulus be not require

to prevent it from starve.'



'be your curious and complimentary culinary fable aim against read

or against examination?' ask Sydney.



'against neither; only against the connect preposition.'



'then you mean to find a superhuman set of student?'



'no; I'm past that.  man and examination will go on as they be; the

goose will run wild, the requirement will be increase, he will nail

himself down in his despair; and he who cram hard, and have the

hot place will gain.'



'then how be the labour lose?' ask Isabel.



'you be new to Fitzjocelyn's paradox,' say Sydney; as if glory

in having make Louis contradict himself.



'the question be, what be lose labour?' say Louis.



both Sydney Calcott and Miss Conway look as if they think he be

argue on after a defeat.  'Calcott be teach she his own

obtuseness!' think James, in a pet; and he exclaim, 'be the aim to

make man or winner of prize?'



'the aim of prize be commonly suppose to be to make man,' loftily

observed Sydney.



'exactly so; and, therefore, I would not make they too analogous to the

Strasburg system,' say Louis.  'I would have they close, search,

but not admit of immediate cramming.'



'pray how would you bring that about?'



'by have no subject on which superficial knowledge could make a show.'



'oh!  I see whither you be work round!  that willn't do now, my dear

fellow; we must enlarge our field, or we shall lay ourselves open to

the charge of be narrow-minded.'



'you have not strength of mind to be narrow-minded!' say Louis,

shake his head.  'ah! well, I have no more to say; my trust be in the

narrow mind, the only expansive one--'



he be at that moment call away; Lord Ormersfield's carriage have be

announce, and his son be not in a quarter of the room where he wish

to detain he.  James could willingly have bite Sydney Calcott for

the observation, 'Poor Fitzjocelyn! he come out strong to-night.'



'very clever,' say Isabel, wish to gratify James.



'oh yes, very; if he have ever take pain,' say Sydney.  'there be

often something in his paradox.  after all, I believe he be read

hard for his degree, be he not, Jem?  his feeling would not be hurt by

the question, for he never pique himself upon his consistency.'



luckily for the general peace, the calcott household be on the move,

and Jem solace himself on their departure by exclaim, 'well do,

Strasburg system!  a high-power Greek-imbibe machine, he may be, but

as to comprehend Fitzjocelyn--'



'Nay,' say Isabel, 'I think Lord Fitzjocelyn ought to carry about a

pocket expositor, if he will be so very startling.   he do not stay to

tell we what to understand by narrow mind.'



'do you ever hear of any one good for anything, that be not accuse

of a narrow mind?' exclaim James.



'if that be what he mean,' say Isabel,--'but he say his trust be

in the narrow mind--'



'in what be popularly so call,' say James.



'I think,' say Mary, lean forward, and speak low, 'that he do

not mean it to be explain away.  I think he be go to say that the

heart may be wide, but the mind must be so far narrow, that it will

accept only the one right, not the many wrong.'



'I think narrowness of mind consist in think your own way the

only right one,' say Isabel.



'every one say so,' say Mary, 'and that be why he say it take

strength of mind to be narrow-minded.  be not the real evil, the

judge people harshly, because their way be not the same; not the

be sure that the one way be the only right!  other may be well

than ourselves, and may be lead right in spite of their error, but

surely we be not to think all path alike--



'and be that Lord Fitzjocelyn's definition of a narrow mind?' say

Isabel.  'it sound like faith and love.  be you sure you do not make

it yourself, Miss Ponsonby?'



'I could not,' say Mary, blushing, as she remember one Sunday

evening when he have say something to that effect, which have insensibly

overthrow the theory in which she have be breed up, namely, that all

the sincere be right, and yet that, practically every one be to be

censure, who do not act exactly like Aunt Melicent.



she rise to take leave, and Clara clung to she, emerge from the shade

of her cabinet with colour little mitigated since her disappearance.

James would have come with they, but be detain by Lady Conway for a

few moment long than it take they to put on their shawl; and Clara

would not wait.  she drag Mary down the step into the darkness, and

groan out, 'o Mary, he can never speak to I again!'



'my dear! he will not recollect it.  it be very awkward, but new

place and new people often do make we forget ourselves.'



'everybody see, everybody hear!  O, I shall never bear to meet one of

they again!'



'I think very few saw or heard--' begin Mary.



'he do!  I do!  that's enough!  the rest be nothing!  I have be as

bad as any one at school!  I shall never hold up my head there again as

I have do, and Louis!  oh!'



'dear child, it will not be remember.  you only forget how tall you

be, and that you be not at home.  he know you too well to care.'



James shout from behind to know why they have not be let into the

house; and as Clara rush in at the door and he walk on with Mary to

leave she at home and fetch his grandmother, who have be spend the

evening with Mrs. Ponsonby, he mutter, 'I don't know which be most

intolerable!  he neglect she, talk what, if it be not nonsense, might

as well be; and as if she be not ready enough to misunderstand,

Sydney Calcott must need thrust in his wit to embroil her

understanding.  Mary! cann't you get she to see the stuff he be make of?'



'if she cannot do that for herself, no persuasion of mine will make

she,' say Mary.



'no! you do not half appreciate he either!  no one do!  and yet you

could, if you try, do something with she!  I see she do not think

you prejudice.  you make an impression to-night.'



Mary feel some consternation.  could it depend on she?   she could

speak naturally, and from her heart in defence of Louis when occasion

serve; but something within her forbade the thought of do so on a

system.  be that something wrong!  she could not answer; but content

herself with the womanly intuition that show she that anything of

persuasion in the present state of affair would be ineffectual and

unbecoming.



meantime, Clara have flee to her little room, to bid her childhood

farewell in a flood of bitter tear.



exaggerated shame, past disdain of the foible of other, the fancy

that she be publicly disgrace and have forfeit Louis's good opinion,

each thought renew her sob; but the true pang be the perception

that old time be pass for ever.  he might forgive, he would still

be friend and cousin; but womanhood have break on she, and show that

perfect freedom be at an end.  Happy for she that she weep but for the

parting from a playfellow!  happy that her feeling be young and

undeveloped, free from all the cruel permanence that early vanity or

self-consciousness might have give; happy that it could be so freely

wash away!  when she have spend her sob, she could resolve to be wise

and steady, so as to be a fit governess to his child; and the tear

flow at the notion of be so distant and respectful to his

lordship.  but what story she could tell they of his boyhood!  and in

the midst of--'Now, my dear, I will tell you about your papa when he

be a little boy,' she fall asleep.



that party be a thing to be remember with tingling cheek for life,

and Clara dread her next meeting with Louis; but the day pass on

without his come to the Terrace, and the terror begin to wear off,

especially as she do not find that any one else remember she

outbreak.  Mary guard against any unfavourable impression by a few

simple word to Isabel and Miss King as to the brotherly term that have

hitherto prevail, and poor Clara's subsequent distress. Clara come in

for some of the bright tint in which her brother be view at the

House Beautiful; Walter be very fond of she, and she have be draw

into a friendship for Virginia, cement in the course of long walk,

when the schoolroom party always beg for Mr. and Miss Dynevor,

because no one else could keep Walter from disturb Louisa's nerve

by tease her pony or slide on dubious ice.



as Mrs. Ponsonby often join in Lady Conway's drive, Mary and Isabel

be generally among the walker; and Mary be consider by Louisa as

an inestimable pony-leader, and an inexhaustible magazine of story

about shark, earthquake, llama, and iceberg.



James and Miss Conway generally have either book or principle to

discuss, and be usually to be find somewhat in the rear, either with

or without Miss King.  one day, however, James give notice that he

should not be at their service that afternoon; and as soon as Walter's

lesson have be despatch, he set out with rapid step for

Ormersfield Park, clench his tooth together every now and then with

his determinate resolution that he would make Louis know his own mind,

and would 'stand no nonsense.'



'ah!  James, good morning,' say the Earl, as he present himself in

the study.  'you will find Louis in his room.  I wish you would make

he come out with you.  he be work hard than be good for he.'



he speak of his son far differently from former time; but Jem only

return a judiciously intone 'poor fellow.'



Lord Ormersfield look at he anxiously, and, hesitating, say, 'you

do not think he out of spirit?'



'oh, he carry it off very well.  I know no one with so strong a sense

of duty,' reply Jem, never compassionate to the father.



again the Earl pause, then say, 'he may probably speak more

unreservedly to you than to I.'



'he shun the topic.  he say there be no use in aggravate the

feeling by discussion.  he would fain submit in heart as well as in

will.'



Lord Ormersfield sigh, but do not appear disposed to say more; and,

charitably hope that a dagger have be implant in he, Jem run

up-stair, and find Louis sit writing at a table, which look as

if Mary have never be near it.



'Jem!  that's right!  I've not see you this age.'



'what be you about?'



'I want particularly some one to listen.  it be an essay on the

Police--'



'be this earnest?'



'Sober earnest.  Sir Miles and all that set be anxious to bring the

matter forward, and my father have be get it up, as he do

whatever he may have to speak upon.  his eye be rather fail for

candle-light work, so I have be help he in the evening, till it

strike I that it be a curious subject to trace in history,--the

Censors, the attempt in Germany and Spain, to supply the defective

law, the spanish and italian dread of justice.  I become enamoured of

the notion, and when I have throw all the hint together, I shall try

to take in my father by read they to he as an article in the

Quarterly.'



'oh, very well. if your soul be there, that be an end of the matter.'



'of what matter?'



'thing cannot run on in this way.  it be not a thing to lay upon I to

go on work in your cause with she when you will not stir a step in

your own behalf.'



'I be very much oblige to you, but I never ask you to work in my

cause.  I beg your pardon, Jem, don't fly into a Welsh explosion.  no

one ever mean more kindly and generously--' he check himself in

amaze at the demonstration he have elicit; but, as it be not

accompany with word, he continue, 'no one can be more grateful to

you than I; but, as far as I can see, there be nothing for it but to be

thankful that no more harm have be do, and to let the matter drop;'

and he drop his hand with just so much despondency as to make Jem

think he worth storm at, instead of give he up; and he go over

the old ground of Louis be incapable of true passion and unworthy of

such a being if he could yield she without an effort, merely for the

sake of peace.



'I say, Jem,' say Louis, quietly, 'all this be bad enough on neutral

ground; it be mere treason under my father's own roof, and I will have

no more of it.'



'then,' cry James, with a strange light in his eye, 'you henceforth

renounce all hope--all pretension?'



'I never have either hope or pretension.  I do not cease to think she,

as I always do, the lovely creature I ever behold.  I cannot help

that; and the state I fall into after be with she on Tuesday,

convince I that it be safe to stay here and fill up time and

think as good I may.'



'for once, Fitzjocelyn,' say James, with a gravity not natural to he,

'I think well of your father than you do.  I would neither treat he

as so tyrannical nor so prejudiced as your conduct suppose he.'



'how?  he be as kind as possible.  we never have so much in common.'



'yes.  your submission so far, and the united testimony of the Terrace,

will soften he.  show your true sentiment.  a little steadiness and

perseverance, and you will prevail.'



'don't make I feverish, Jem.'



a summon to Lord Fitzjocelyn to come down to a visitor in the library

cut short the discussion, and James take leave at once, neither cousin

wish to resume the conversation.



the dart have not be injudiciously aim.  the father and son be

both render uneasy.  they have hitherto be unusually comfortable

together, and though the life be unexciting, Louis's desire to be

useful to his father, and the press need of work for his degree,

keep his mind fairly occupy.  though wistful look might sometimes be

turn along the Northwold road, when he sally forth in the twilight

for his constitutional walk, he do not analyse which number of the

Terrace be the magnet, and he avoid testing to the utmost the power

of his foot.  the affection and solicitude show for he at home

claim a full return; nor have James be greatly mistake in ascribe

something to the facility of nature that yield to force of character.

but Jem have stir up much that Louis would have be content to

leave dormant; and the hope that he have strive to excite come almost

teazingly to interfere with the passive acquiescence of an indolent

will.  perturb and doubtful, he be go to seek counsel as usual of

the open air, as soon as the visitor be go, but his father follow

he into the hall, ask whither he be go.



'I do not know.  I have be think of try whether I can get as far

as Marksedge.'



Marksedge would be fatal to the ankle, solitude to the spirit, think

the Earl; and he at once declare his intention of walk with his son

as far as he should let he go.



Louis be half vex, half flatter, and they proceed in silence,

till conscious of be ruffle, and afraid of be ungracious, he

make a remark on the farm that they be approach, and learn in

return that the lease be nearly out, the tenant do not want a

renewal, and that Richardson intend to advertise.



he breathe a wish that it be in their own hand, and this lead to a

statement of the condition of affair, the same to which a year before

he have be wilfully deaf, and to which he now attend chiefly for the

sake of gratify his father, though he well understand what

depend on it.  at least, it be make the Earl insensible to the

space they be traverse, and the black outline of Marksedge be

rise on he before he be aware.  then he would have turn, but

Louis plead that having come so far, he should be glad to speak to

Madison's grandfather, and one or two other old people, and he

prevail.



Lord Ormersfield be not prepare for the real aspect of the hamlet.



'Richardson always declare that the cottage be keep in repair,' he

say.



'Richardson never see they.  he trust to Reeves.'



'the people might do something themselves to keep the place decent.'



'they might; but they lose heart out of sight of respectability.  I

will just knock at this door--I will not detain you a moment.'



the dark smoky room, damp, ill-paved floor, and crack wall produce

their effect; and the name and voice of the inmate do more. Lord

Ormersfield recognise a man who have once work in the garden, and

come forward and speak, astonish and shock to find he prematurely

old.  the story be soon tell; there have be a seasoning fever as a

welcome to the half-reclaim moorland; ague and typhus be frequent

visitor, and disable rheumatism a more permanent companion to

labourer exhaust by long wet walk in addition to the daily toil.

at an age less than that of the Earl himself, he behold a bow and

break cripple.



Fitzjocelyn perceive his victory, and forebore to press it too

hastily, lest he should hurt his father's feeling; and walk on

silently, think how glad Mary would be to hear of this expedition,

and what a pity it be that the unlucky passage of last August should

have interfere with their comfortable friendship.  at last the Earl

break silence by say, 'it be very unfortunate;' and Louis echo,

'very.'



'my poor Uncle Dynevor!  he be, without exception, the most

wrong-head person I ever come in contact with, yet so excessively

plausible and eager that he carry my poor father entirely along with

he.  Louis! nothing be so ruinous as to surrender the judgment.'



fully assenting, Louis wonder whether Marksedge would serve no

purpose save the elucidation of this truism, and presently another

ensue.



'Mischief be soon do than repair.  as I have be allow you,

there have never be ready money at command.'



'I think there be no more mortgage to be pay off.  the rent of

the Fitzjocelyn estate and the house in the low town must come to

something.'



he be then tell how these, with his mother's fortune, have be set

apart to form a fund for his establishment, and for the first time he

be show the object of arrangement against which he have often in

heart rebel.  his first impulse be to exclaim that it be a great

pity, and that he could not bear that his father should have deny

himself on his account.



'do you think these thing be sacrifice to I?' say the Earl.  'my

habit be form long ago.'



'mine have be form on your,' say Louis.  'I should be encumber

by such an income as you propose unless you would let I lay it out in

make work for the man and improve the estate, and that I have rather

you undertake, for I should be certain to do something preposterous,

and then be sorry.'



'Mrs. Ponsonby judge rightly.  it be her very advice.'



'then!' cry Louis, as if the deed be do.



'you would not find the income too large in the event of your marriage.'



'a most unlikely event!'



his father glance towards he. if there have be a symptom of

unhappiness, relent be near, but it so chance that Marksedge be

reign supreme, and he be chiefly concerned to set aside the

supposition as an obstacle to his view.  the same notion as James

Frost's occur to the Earl, that it could not be a tenacious

character which could so easily set aside an attachment apparently so

fervent, but the resignation be too much in accordance with his

desire to render he otherwise than gratify, and he listen with

complacency to Louis's plan.  nothing be fix, but there be an

understanding that all should have due consideration.



this settle, Louis's mind recur to the hint which his father have

throw out, and he wonder whether it mean that the present

compliance might be far stretch, but he think it more likely to

be merely a reference to ordinary contingency.  thing be far too

comfortable between he and his father to be disturb by discussion,

and he might ultimately succeed well by submit, and leave fact

and candour to remove prejudice.



to forget perplexity in the amusement of a mystification, he bring

down his essay, conceal it ingeniously within a review flank by

blue-book, and, when Lord Ormersfield be take out a pair of

spectacle with the reluctance of a man not yet accustomed to they, he

ask he if he would like to hear an article on the Police question.



at first the Earl show sign of nodding, and say there be nothing

to the purpose in all the historical curiosity at the outset, so that

Louis, alarmed lest he should absolutely drop asleep, skip all his

favourite passage, and come at once to the result of the recent

inquiry.  the Earl be rouse.  who could have learn those fact?

that be tell--well put, but how do he get hold of it. the very

thing he have say himself--what Quarterly be it?  surely the Christmas

number be not out.  Hitherto Louis have keep his countenance and voice,

but in an hiatus, where he be try to extemporize, his father come

to look over his shoulder to see what ail the book, and, glance

upwards with a merry debonnaire face, he make a gesture as if convict.



'do you mean that this be your own composition?'



'I beg your pardon for the pious fraud!'



'it be very good!  excellently do!' said Lord Ormersfield.  'there

be redundancy--much to betray an unpractised hand--but--stay, let I

hear the rest--' very differently do he listen now, broad awake,

attack the logic of every third sentence, or else double shot it

with some ponderous word, and shake his head at utopian view of

crime to be dry up at the fountain head.  next, he must hear the

beginning, and ruthlessly pick it to piece, demolish all the

Vehme Gericht and Santissima Hermandad as irrelevant, and, when he have

make Louis ashamed and vex with the whole production, astonish he

by declare that it would tell, and advise he to copy it out fair

with these _little_ alteration.



these _little_ alteration would, as he be well aware, evaporate all

the spirit, and though glad to have please his father, his

perseverance quail before the task; but he say no more than thank

you.  the next day, before he have settle to anything, Lord Ormersfield

come to his room, say, 'you will be engage with your more important

study for the next few hour.  can you spare the paper you read to I

last night?'



'I can spare it well than you can read it, I fear,' say Louis,

produce a mass of blot MS in all his variety of penmanship, and

feel a sort of despair at the prospect of be bring to book on

all his detail.



his father carry it off, and they do not meet again till late in the

day, when the first thing Louis hear be, 'I think it worth while to

have another opinion on your manuscript before re-write it.  I try

to read it to Mrs. Ponsonby, but we be interrupt, and I leave it

with she.'



presently after.  'I have make an engagement for you.  Lady Conway

wish that you should go to luncheon with she to-morrow.  I believe

she want to consult you about some birth-day celebration.'



Louis be much surprised, and somewhat entertain.



'when will you have the carriage?' pursue the Earl.



'will not you come?'



'no, I be not want.  in fact, I do not see how you can be require,

but anything will serve as an excuse.  in justice, however, I should

add that our friend at the Terrace be disposed to think well of the

young part of the family.'



except for the cold constraint of the tone, Louis could have think

much ground gain, but he be sure that his holiday would be damp by

know that it be concede at the cost of much distress and

uneasiness.



go to Northwold early enough for a call at no. 5, he be greet by

Mrs. Frost with, 'my dear! what have you be about?  I never see your

father so much pleased in his life!  he come in on purpose to tell I,

and I think it exceedingly kind.  so you take he in completely.

what an impudent rogue you always be!'



'I never mean it to go beyond the study.  I be oblige to write it

down in self-defence, that I might know what he be talk of.'



'I believe he expect you to be even with Sydney Calcott after all. it

be really very clever.  where do you get all those funny story?'



'what! you have go and read it!'



'ah, ha!  Mrs. Ponsonby give we a pretty little literary soiree. don't

be too proud, it be only ourselves, except that Mary bring in Miss

Conway.  Jem try to read it, but after he have make that Spanish

Society into 'hammer man dead,' Mary get it away from he, and read

through as if it have be in print.'



'what an infliction!'



'it be very disrespectful to think we so frivolous.  we only wish all

review be as entertaining.'



'it be too bad, when I only want to mystify my father.'



'it serve you right for play trick.  what have you be do to

he, Louis?  you will turn he into a doting father before long.'



'what have you do with Clara?'



'she go every day to read Italian with Miss Conway, and the governess

be so kind as to give her drawing lesson.  she be learn far more

than at school, and they be so kind!  I should hardly know how to

accept it, but Jem do not object, and he be really very useful there,

spend a great deal of time on the boy, and be teach the young

lady Latin.'



'they be leave you lonely in the holiday!  you ought to come to

Ormersfield, your nephews would take well care of you.'



'ah! I have my Marys.  if I be only well satisfied about the dear

old one.  she be far less well than when she come.'



'indeed!  be Mary uneasy?'



'she say nothing, but you know how her eye be always on she, and she

never seem to have she out of her thought.  I be afraid they be

worried about Lima.  from what Oliver say, I fear Mr. Ponsonby go on

bad than ever without either his family or his appointment to be a

restraint.'



'I hope they do not know all!  Mary would not believe it, that be one

comfort!'



'ah, Louis! there be thing that the heart will not believe, but which

cut it deeply!  however, if that could be any comfort to they, he

wish they to spare nothing here.  he tell they they may live at the

rate of five thousand pound a-year, poor dear.  indeed, he and Oliver

be in such glory over their equatorial steam navigation, that I expect

next to hear of a crash.'



'you don't look as if it would be a very dreadful sound.'



'if it would only bring my poor Oliver back to I!'



'yes--nothing would make Jem so civil to he as his come float in

on a plank, wet through, with a little bundle in one hand and a parrot

in the other.'



Mrs. Frost give one of her tender laugh, and fill up the picture.

'Jane would open the door, Jane would know Master Oliver's black eye

in a moment--'No, no.  _i_ must see he first!  if he once look up I

could not miss he, whatever colour he may have turn.  I wonder

whether he would know I!'



'don't you know that you grow handsomer every year, Aunt Kitty?'



'don't flatter, sir.'



'well, I most go to my aunt.'



he tarry to hear the welcome recital of all the kind deed of the

house of Conway.  he presently find Lady Conway await he in the

drawing-room, and be greet with great joy.  'that be well!  I hope

to work on your father by tell he I do not approve of young man

carry industry too far--'



'that be not my habit.'



'then it be your excuse for avoid troublesome relation!  no, not a

word!  I know nothing about the secret that occupy Isabel at Mrs.

Ponsonby's select party.  but I really want you.  you be more au

fait as to the society here than the Ponsonbys and Dynevors.  ah! when

do that come off?'



'what be to come off?'



'Miss Ponsonby and Mr. Dynevor.  what a good creature he be!'



'I cannot see much likelihood of it, but you be more on the scene of

action.'



'she could do much well, with such expectation, but on his account I

could not be sorry.  it be shocking to think of that nice young sister

be a governess.  I think it a duty to give she every advantage that

may tend to form she.  with her connexion and education, I can have no

objection to she as a companion to your cousin, and with a few

advantage, though she will never be handsome, she might marry well.

they be a most interesting family. Isabel and I be most anxious to do

all in our power for they.'



'Clara be oblige,' say Louis, with undetected irony, but secret

wonder at the dexterity with which the patronage must have be

administer so as not to have make the interesting family fly off at a

tangent.



Isabel make her appearance in she almost constant morning dress of soft

dove-colour merino entirely unadorned, and look more like a maiden

in a romance than ever.  she have just leave Adeline stand on the

step of a stone cross, exhort the provencal to arm against a

descent of Moorish corsair, and she hold out her hand to Fitzjocelyn

much as Adeline do, when the fantastic Viscount profess his

intention of fly instead of fight, and want she to sit behind

he on his courser.



Lady Conway pronounce her council complete, and propound the fete

which she wish to give on the 12th of January in honour of Louisa's

birthday.  Isabel take up a pencil, and be lose in sketch wayside

crosse, and vessel with lateen sail, only throw in a word or two

here and there when necessary.  dancing be still, Lady Conway fear,

out of the question with Fitzjocelyn.



'and always will be, I suspect.  so much for my bargain with Clara to

dance with she at her first ball!'



'you like dancing?' exclaim Isabel, rejoice to find another

resemblance to the fantastic Viscount.



'last year's Yeomanry ball be the good fun in the world!'



'there, Isabel,' say Lady Conway, 'you ought to be gratify to find a

young man candid enough to allow that he like it!  but since that

cannot be, I must find some other plan--'



'what cannot be?' exclaim Louis.  'you don't mean to omit the

dancing--'



'it could not be enjoy without you.  your cousin and friend could

not bear to see you sit down--'



Isabel's lip be compress, and the foam of her wave laugh

scornfully under her pencil.



'they must get accustomed to the melancholy spectacle,' say Louis. 'I

do not mean to intermit the Yeomanry ball, if it take place while I be

at home.  the chaperon be the good company, after all. reconsider it,

my dear aunt, or you will keep I from come at all.'



Lady Conway be only consider of tableaux, and Louis take fire at

the notion: he already behold Waverley in his beloved Yeomanry suit,

Isabel as Flora, Clara as Davie Gellatley--the character she would most

appreciate.  Isabel rouse herself to say that tableaux be very dull

work to all save the actor, and soon be mere weariness to they.  she

stepmother tell she she have once be of a different mind, when she have

be Isabel Bruce, kneel in her cell, the ring before she.  'I be

young enough then to think myself Isabel,' be her answer, and she draw

the more diligently because Fitzjocelyn could not restrain an

interjection, and a look which mean, 'what an Isabel she must have

be!'



she sit passive while Lady Conway and Louis deck up a scene for Flora

MacIvor; but presently it appear that the Waverley of the piece be

to be, accord to Louis, not the proper owner of the Yeomanry

uniform, but James Frost.  his aunt exclaim, and the rehearsal be

strong temptation; but he make answer, 'no--you must not reckon on I:

my father would not like it.'



the manful childishness, the childish manfulness of such a reply, be

impenetrable.  if his two-and-twenty year do not make he ashamed of

say so, nothing else could, and it cover a good deal. he know that

his father's fastidious pride would dislike his make a spectacle of

himself, and think that it would be presume unkindly on to-day's

liberty to involve himself in what would necessitate term more

intimate than be desire.



the luncheon silence the consultation, which be to be a great secret

from the child; but afterwards, when it be resume, with the

addition of James Frost, Fitzjocelyn be vex to find the tableaux

discard; not avowedly because he exclude himself from a share, but

because the style of people might not understand they. the

entertainment be to be a Christmas-tree--not so hackneye a spectacle

in the year 1848 as in 1857--and Louis launch into a world of

couplet for motto.  next come the question of guest, when Lady

Conway read out name from the card-basket, and Fitzjocelyn be in

favour of everybody, till Jem, after many counter-statement, assure

Lady Conway that he be try to fill her room with the most

intolerable people in the world.



'my aunt say she want to give pleasure.'



'ah! there's nothing so inconvenient to one's friend as good nature.

who care for what be share indiscriminately?'



'I don't think I can trust Fitzjocelyn with my visit-list just yet,'

say Lady Conway.  'you be too far above to be sensible of the grade

beneath, with your place make for you.'



'not at all,' say Louis.  'northwold tea-party be my early,

most natural dissipation; and I speak for these good people for my own

personal gratification.'



'Nay, I cann't consent to your deluding Lady Conway into Mrs. Walby.'



'if there be any one you wish I to ask, my dear Fitzjocelyn--' begin

Lady Conway.



'oh no, thank you; Jem be quite right.  I might have be play on

your unguarded innocence; but I be the bad person in the world to

consult; for all the county and all the town be so kind to I, that I

don't know whom I could leave out.  now, the Pendragon there will help

you to the degree of gentility that may safely be set to consort

together.'



'what an unkind fling!' think Isabel.



Louis take leave, exclaim to himself on the stair, 'there! if

comport oneself like a donkey before the object be a token, I've

do it effectually.  don't I know the exclusiveness of the woman?

yet, how could I help say a word for the poor little walby? and,

after all, if they be there, no one would speak to they but Aunt

Kitty and I.  and Isabel, I be sure she scorn the fastidious

nonsense; I see it in her eye and lip.'



after a quarter of an hour spend in hear her praise from Miss

Faithfull, he betake himself to Mrs. Ponsonby's, not quite without

embarrassment, for he have not be alone with the mother and daughter

since August.



'I be glad you do not come before,' say Mary, heartily; 'I have just

do:' and she return to her writing-table, while her mother be

say,



'we like it very much.'



'you have not be copy that wretched concern!' exclaim Louis.

'why, Mary, you must have be at it all night.  it be a week's work.'



'copying be not compose,' say Mary.



'but you have mend it, make it consecutive!  if I have guess that my

father mean to trouble any one with it!'



'if you take pain with it, it may be very valuable,' say Mrs.

Ponsonby.  'we have mark a few thing that you have well revise

before it go to Oakstead.'



'go to Oakstead!' say Louis, faintly.



'your father talk of send it, to see if Sir Miles do not think it

might tell well in one of the Reviews.'



'I hope not.  I should lose all my faith in anonymous criticism, if

they admit such a crude undergraduate's omnium gatherum!  besides,

what an immense task to make it presentable!'



'be that the root of your humility?'



'possibly.  but for very shame I must doctor it, if Mary have waste so

much time over it.  it do not look so bad in your hand!'



'it strike I whether you have render this spanish story right.'



'of course not.  I never stick to my dictionary.'



a sound dose of criticism ensue, temper by repetition of his

father's pleasure, and next come some sympathy and discussion about the

farm and Marksedge, in which the lady take their usual earnest part,

and Mary be as happy as ever in hearing of his progress.  he say no

word of their neighbour; but he could not help colour when Mary

say, as he wish her good-bye, 'we like the party in the House

Beautiful so much!  Miss Conway be such an acquisition to I! and they

be do all you could ever have wish for Clara.'



Mary be glad that she have say it.  Louis be not so glad.  he think

it must have be an effort, then deride his vanity for the

supposition.









CHAPTER XVI.



the fruit of the CHRISTMAS-tree



  Age, twine thy brow with fresh spring flower,

  and call a train of laugh hour;

  and bid they dance, and bid they sing:

  and thou, too, mingle in the ring.

                             WORDSWORTH





the 12th of January be the last day before James and Louis mean to

return to Oxford, Jem take Clara on from thence to school.  it be to

be the farewell to Christmas--one much enjoy in Dynevor Terrace.

Fitzjocelyn's absence be almost a relief to Clara; she could not make

up her mind to see he till she could hope their last encounter have

be forget; and in the mean time, her anticipation be fix on

the great 12th.  she be aware of what the entertainment would consist,

but be in honour bind to conceal her knowledge from Virginia and

Louisa, who on their side affect great excitement and curiosity, and

make every ostentation of guess and peep.  gift be smuggle

into the house from every quarter--some to take their chance, some

direct with motto droll or affectionate.  Clara prepare a few

trifle, in which she show that school have do something for her

finger, and commit her little parcel to her brother's care; and

Miss Mercy be the happy of all, continually knock at the locked

door of the back drawing-room with gild fir cone, paint banner,

or moss birds'-nests, from Miss Salome.



Miss King and Isabel have undertake the main business.  when rouse

from her pensive stillness, Isabel could be very eager, active, and

animate; and she work with the exhilaration that she could freely

enjoy when unrestrained by perceive that she be want to produce an

effect.  what woman's height and hand could not perform fall to the

share of James, who, with his step-ladder and dexterous hand, be

invaluable.  merrily, merrily do the three work, laugh over their

suspend bonbon, their droll contrivance, or predict the

adaptation of their gift; and more and more gay be the laugh, the

tutor more piquant, the governess more keen and clever, the young lady

more vivacious, as the twilight darken, and the tree become more

laden, and the streamer and glass ball produce a more brilliant

effect.



proudly, when the task be accomplish, do they contemplate their

work, and predict the aspect of their tinsel and frippery when duly

light up.  then, as they disperse to dress, James run home, and

hastily tap at his sister's door.



'what be the matter?' she cry.  'have the tassel come off my purse?'



'nothing of the kind, but--' he come quite in, and look round

restlessly, then hastily say, 'you give I nothing for Miss Conway.'



'I wish it very much,' say Clara, 'but I could not bear to do

anything trumpery for she.  oh, if one could give she anything worth

have!'



'Clara, I have think--but I do not know if you would like to part

with it--'



'I have think of it too,' say Clara; 'but I think you would not

like it to be give away.'



pull out a drawer, she open an odd little box of queer

curiosity, whence she take a case contain an exquisite ivory

carving, a copy of the 'Madonna della Sedia,' so fine that a magnifier

alone could fully reveal the delicacy and accuracy of the feature and

expression.  it be mount as a bracelet clasp, and be a remnant of

poor Mr. Dynevor's treasure.  it have be give to Mrs. Henry Frost,

and have descend to her daughter.



'should you be willing?' wistfully ask James.



'that I should!  I have long to give she what she would really care

for.  she have be so very kind--and her kindness be so very sweet in

its graciousness!  I shall always be the happy for the very thinking

of it.'



'I be glad--' begin Jem, warmly; but, break off, he added--'This

would make we all more comfortable.  it would lessen the weight of

obligation, and that would be satisfactory to you.'



'I don't know.  I like people to be so kind, that I cann't feel as if I

would pay they off, but as if I could do nothing but love they.'



'you do not imagine that I rate this as repayment!'



'oh! no, no!'



'no! it be rather that nothing can be too precious--' then

pausing--'You be sure you be willing, Clary?'



'only too glad.  I like it to be something valuable to we as well as in

itself.  if I only have a bit of black velvet, I could set it up.'



in ten minute, Jem have speed to a shop and back again, and stand by

as Clara stitch the clasp to the ribbon velvet; while there be an

amicable dispute, he insist that the envelope should bear only the

initial of the true donor, and she maintain that 'he give the black

velvet.'  she have her way, and write, 'from her grateful C. F. D. and

J. R. F. D.;' and as James take the little packet, he thank she with

an affectionate kiss--a thing so unprecedented at an irregular hour,

that Clara's heart leapt up, and she felt reward for any semblance of

sacrifice.



he tell his grandmother that he have agree with his sister that they

could do no otherwise than present the ivory clasp; and Mrs. Frost, who

have no specially tender association with it, be satisfied to find

that they have anything worth offer on equal term.



she be to be of the party, and set forth, they, find the House

beautiful upside down--even the Faithfull parlour devote to shawl and

bonnet, and the two good old sister in the drawing-room; Miss Salome,

under the protection of little Louisa, in an easy chair, opposite the

fold door.  small child be cluster in shy group round their

respective keeper.  Lady Conway be receive her guest with the

smile so engage at first sight, Isabel move from one to the other

with stately grace and courtesy, Virginia watch for Clara, and both

becoming merge in a mass of white skirt and glossy head, occupy a

wide area.  Mrs. Frost be rapturously surround by half-a-dozen young

man, Sydney Calcott foremost, former pupil enchant to see she, and

keep possession of she all the rest of the evening.  she be a

dangerous person to invite, for the Northwold youth have no eye but for

she.



the child be presently take down to tea in the dining-room by

Miss King and Miss Mercy; and presently a chorus of little voice and

peal of laughter break out, confirm the fact, whisper by Delaford

to his lady, that Lord Fitzjocelyn have arrive, and have join the

downstairs party.



while coffee go round in the drawing-room, Isabel glide out to

perform the lighting process.



'oh, Mr. Dynevor!' she exclaim, find he at her side, 'I do not

mean to call you away.'



'mere unreason to think of the performance alone,' say James, set

up his trusty ladder.  'what would become of that black lace?'



'thank you, it may be safe and quick.'



'so far the evening be most successful,' say Jem, light above as

she light below.



'that it be!  I like Northwold well than any place I have be in

since I leave Thornton Conway.  there be so much more heartiness and

friendliness here than in ordinary society.



'I think Fitzjocelyn's open sympathy have conduced--'



Isabel laugh, and he check himself, disconcert.



'I beg your pardon,' she say; 'I be amuse at the force of habit. if

I be to say the Terrace chimney do not smoke, you would say it be

Lord Fitzjocelyn's do.'



'do not bid I do otherwise than keep he in mind.'



down fall the high candle: the hot wax drop on Isabel's arm

cause she to exclaim, bring Jem down in horror, cry, 'I have

hurt you! you be burn!'



'oh no, only startle.  there be no harm do, you see,' as she crack

away the cool wax--'not even a mark to remind I of this happy

Christmas.'



'and it have be a happy Christmas to you,' he say, remounting.



'most happy.  nothing have be so peaceful or satisfactory in my

wandering life.'



'shall I find you here at Easter?'



'I fear not.  Mamma like to be in London early; but perhaps she may

leave the school-room party here, as Louisa be gain so much ground,

and that would be a pledge of our return.'



'too much joy,' say James, almost inaudibly.



'I hope Walter may spend his holiday here,' she pursue.  'it be a

great thing for he to be with any one who can put a few right notion

into his head.'



Jem abstain from, as usual, propose Fitzjocelyn for his example,

but only say that Walter be very susceptible of good impression.



'and most heartily we thank you for all you have do for he,' say

Isabel, doubt whether Walter's mother appreciate the full extent of

it; 'indeed, we have all a great deal to thank you for.  I hope my

sister and I may be the well all our life for the help and

explanation you have give to we.  be that the last candle?  how

beautiful!  we must open.'



'Miss Conway--'



'Yes'--she pause with her hand on the key.



'no, no--do not wait,' take the key himself.  'yet--yes, I must--I

must thank you for such words--'



'my word?' say Isabel, smile.  'for thank you, or be happy

here?'



'Both! both!  those word will be my never-fail charm.  you little

guess how I shall live on the remembrance.  oh, if I could only convey

to you what feeling you have excited--'



the word break from he as if beyond his control, and under the

press need of not waste the taper, he instinctively unlock the

door as he speak, and cut himself short by turn the handle, perhaps

without know what he be about.



instantly Lady Conway and Miss King each push a fold leaf, Isabel

and James draw back on either side, and the spectator behold the tall

glistening evergreen, illuminate with countless little spire of

light, glance out among the dark leave, and reflect from the gilt

fir-cone, glass ball, and brilliant toy.



'Sister! sister!' cry Miss Mercy, stand by Miss Faithfull's chair,

in the rear of the throng, and seize her hand in ecstasy; 'it be like

a dream! like what we have read of!  oh, the dear little child!  so

very kind of Lady Conway!  could you have imagined--?' she quite gasp.



'it be very pretty, but it be a nicer Christmas-tree last year at Lady

Runnymede's,' say Louisa, with the air of a critic.  'there we have

colour lamp.'



'little fastidious puss!' say Louis, 'I think you keep in the

background out of politeness; but I see you be only blasee with

Christmas-tree.  I pity you!  I could no more be critical at such a

moment than I could analyse the jewel in Aladdin's cave.'



'oh, if you and Miss Faithfull talk, Cousin Fitzjocelyn, you will make

it seem quite new.'



'you will deride the freshness of our simplicity,' say Louis, but

presently add, 'Miss Salome, have we not awaken to the enchant

land?  do ever mortal tree bear star of live flame?  here be

realize the fabled apple of gold--nay, the fir-cone of Nineveh, the

jewel-fruit of Eastern story, depend from the same bough. yonder lamp

shine by fairy spell.'



'now, Cousin Fitzjocelyn, do you think I suppose you so silly--'



'Soft!  the Dryad of the Enchanted Bower advance.  her float robe,

her holly crown, beseem her queenly charm.'



'as if you do not know that it be only Isabel!'



'only!  may the word be forgive to a sister!  Isabel!  the name be

all-expressive.'



'she be look even more lovely than usual,' say Miss Faithfull. 'I

never see such a countenance.'



'she have a colour to-night,' add Miss Mercy, 'which do, as you say,

make her handsomer than ever.  dear! dear!  I hope she be not tired.  I

be so sorry I do not help she to light the tree!'



'I do not think it be fatigue,' say her sister.  'I hope it be

animation and enjoyment--all I have ever think want to that sweet

face.'



'you be as bad as my prosaic cousin,' say Louis, 'disenchant the

magic bower and the wood-nymph into fir, wax, and modern young

ladyhood.'



'there, cousin, it be you who have call she a modern young lady.'



before Louisa have express her indignation, there be a call for she.



'the Sovereign of the Bower beckon,' say Louis.  'favour damsel,

know how to deserve her smile.  Fairy gift remain not with the

unworthy.'



as he put she forward, some one make way for she.  it be Mary, and he

blush at perceive that she must have hear all his rhodomontade.

as if to make amend, he pause, and ask for Mrs. Ponsonby.



'much more comfortable to-night, thank you;' and the pleasant, honest

look of her friendly eye relieve he by not reproach he.



'I wish she be here.  it be a pretty, more visionary sight than I

could have conceive.'



'I wish she could see it; but she fear the crowd.  many people in a

room seem to stifle she.  be Lord Ormersfield here?'



'no, it would not be his element.  but imagine his having take to

walk with I!  I really think he will miss I.'



'really?' say Mary, amuse.



'it be presumptuous; but he do not see well at night, and be not

quite break in to his spectacle.  Mary, I hope you will walk over to

see after he.  nothing would be so good for he as walk you back,

and stay to dinner with you.  go right into the library; he would be

greatly pleased.  cann't you make some book excuse?  and you have the

cottage to see.  the people inaugurate the boiler with Christmas

pudding.'



'Mr. Holdsworth tell we how pleased they be.  and the Norrises?'



'Mrs. Norris be delighted; she have find a woman to wash, and say it

will save she a maid.  the people can get milk now: I assure you they

look more wholesome already!  and Beecher have actually ask for two

more house in emulation.  and Richardson find himself turn over to

I!'



'oh, that's right.'



'I've be at the plan all the afternoon.  I see how to contrive the

fireplace in the back room, that we could not have in the first set,

and make they cheap, too.  my father have really make a point of that

old decrepit Hailes be move from Marksedge; and Mary, he, and

Richardson mean Inglewood to be make over to I for good.  I be to put

in a bailiff, and do as I can with it--have the profit or bear the

loss.  I think I have an idea--'



in spite of her willingness to hear the idea, Mary could not help

ask, 'have you send off the Police article?'



'Hush, Mary; it be my prime object to have it well forget.'



'oh! do not Sir Miles like it?'



'he say it want liveliness and anecdote.  so the Santissima

Hermandad, and all the extraneous history, be send to he; and then

he be well content, and only want I to leave out all the Christian

chivalry--all I care to say--'



'you don't mean not to finish?  your father be so pleased, Isabel so

much strike!  it be a pity--'



'no, no; you may forgive I, Mary--it be not pure laziness.  it be

mere rubbish, without the point, which be too strong for the two

politician; rubbish, any way.  don't tell I to go on with it; it be

a mere trial, much well let it die away.  I really have no time; if I

don't mind my own business, I shall be a plucked gosling; and that

would go to his, lordship's heart.  besides, I must get these plan

do.  do you remember where we get the fire-brick for the oven?'



Mary be answer, when Walter came burst through the crowd. 'where

be he?  Fitzjocelyn, it be your turn.'



'here be a curious speciman for our great naturalist,' say Mrs. Frost,

a glow in her cheek, and her voice all stifle mirth and mischief.



it be a large nest of moss and horsehair, partly conceal under the

low branch, and contain two huge egg streak and spot with

azure and vermilion, and a purple and yellow feather, label,

'drop by the parent animal in her flight, on the discovery of the

nest by the crew of H.M.S. Flying Dutchman.  North Greenland, April

1st, 1847.  Qu.?  Female of Equus Pegasus.  respectfully dedicated to

the Right Honourable Viscount Fitzjocelyn.'



'a fine speciman,' say the Viscount at once, with the air of a

connoisseur, by no mean take by surprise.  'they be not very

uncommon; I find one myself about the same date in the justice-room. I

dare say Mr. Calcott recollect the circumstance.'



'oh, my dear fellow,' exclaim Sydney, instead of his father; 'you

need not particularize.  you always be a discoverer in that line.'



'true,' say Louis, 'but this be unique.  North Greenland--ah! I

think it be from a Frosty country.  ha, Clara?'



'not I; I know nothing of it,' cry Clara, in hurry and confusion, not

yet able to be suspect of take liberty with he.



'no?' say Louis, turn about his acquisition; 'I think I know the

female that lay these egg.  the proper name be, I fancy, glacie

Dynevorensis--var. Catharina--perhaps--'



Walter and Louisa have bring their mother to see the nest, the point

of which she comprehend as little as they; and not understand how

much amusement be betoken by her nephew's gravity, she protest

that none of her party have devise it, nor even be privy to it, and

that Mr. Dynevor must bear the blame, but he be very busy detach

the prize from the tree, and hastily deny any concern with it.  Aunt

Catharine be oblige to console Lady Conway, and enchant Louis by

own herself the sole culprit, with no aid but Miss Mercy's.

together they have dispose the nest in its right locality, as soon as

the Earl's absence be secure.



'I have not courage for it before he,' she laugh.  'as for this

fellow, I know he would esteem it a compliment.'



'as a tribute to his imagination?' say Isabel, who, in her mood of

benevolence, could be strike with the happy understanding between aunt

and nephew reveal by such a joke, so receive.



'it would be a curious research,' say Louis, 'whether more of these

nidification result from over-imagination or the want of it.'



'often from want of imagination, and no want of cowardice,' say Isabel.



'that sort of nest have not illuminate egg like these,' say Louis.

'they be generally extremely full of gunpowder, and might be paint

with a skull and crossbone.  I say, Clara, have Aunt Kitty consider

the consequence?  she have sacrifice her ostrich egg!  I can never

part with these original production of her genius.'



he exhibit his mare's nest with his own gay bonhommie to all who be

curious, and presently, when every one's attention have be again

recall to the wonder which Isabel be distribute, and he have

turn aside to dispose of his treasure, he hear a sound of soliloquy

half aloud, 'I wonder whether she have it!' from Clara, who stand a

little apart.



'what?' ask Louia.



'my ivory clasp with the Madonna,' say Clara.  'Jem and I think it

the only thing worthy of Miss Conway.'



'Hem!' say Louis; 'it be not your fault, Clara; but it would be

graceful to learn to receive a favour.'



'a favour, but not a grand thing like this,' say Clara, show a

beautiful little case of work implement.



'hardly worth, even intrinsically, your mother's bracelet,' say Louis.

'but I be not go to talk treason to the family doctrine, though it

be very inconvenient to your friend.'



'then you think we ought not to have do it?'



'that depend on what I cann't decide.'



'what's that?'



'whether you give it out of love or out of pride.'



'I think we give it out of one, and excuse it by the other.'



'very satisfactory.  to reward you, here be something for you to do. I

shall never get at Aunt Kitty to-night.  I see the midshipman, young

Brewster, will not relinquish she; so will you or will she administer

this letter to the Lady of Eachalott?'



'you don't mean that be Tom Madison!' exclaim Clara.  'why, it be

like copper-plate.  no more fitsgosling!'



'no, indeed!  be he not a clever fellow?  he have just reach the stage

of civilization that break out in dictionary word.  I have be, in

return, tell he the story of the irish schoolmaster who puzzle the

magistrate's bench by a petition about a small cornute animal, mean

a kid.  but I should think it would be very edify to Charlotte to

see herself commemorate as the individual at the Terrace, and his

grandfather as his aged relative.  he send the old man ten shilling

this time, for he be promote.  don't you think I may be proud of he?

be Mary go home?  she must hear about he.'



as he turn away in search of Mary, Clara feel a soft hand on her

shoulder, and Isabel beckon she to follow into the back drawing-room,

where the tree be burn out and desert.



'I may thank _you_,' say Isabel, in a low, sweet voice, press she

hand.



'and Jem,' say Clara; 'he think of it first.'



'it be the most beautiful Christmas gift; but I do not like for you to

part with it, my dear.'



'we both wish it, and grandmamma gave leave.  we long for you to

have something we prize like this, for it belong to my mamma.  it be

Jem's present too, for he go out and buy the black velvet.'



'clasp it on for I, dear Clara.  there!' and Isabel kiss the finger

which obey.  'it shall never leave my arm.'



Clara's face burn with surprise and pleasure amounting to

embarrassment, as Isabel express hope of meet again, and engage

she to write from school.  she look for her brother to take his share

of thank; but he be determinately do his duty in cut chicken

and cake for those who desire supper, and he do not come in their way

again till all the guest be go, and good-night and good-bye be

to be say at once.



Lady Conway be warm in express her hope that Walter would enjoy

the same advantage another holiday, and tell Mr. Dynevor she should

write to he.  but Jem make little answer, nothing like a promise.

Clara think he have become stiff from some unknown affront, perhaps

some oppressive present, for he seem to intend to include all the

young lady in one farewell bow.  but Isabel advance with

outstretche hand and flush cheek, and her murmur 'thank you' and

confide pressure draw from he such a grasp as could not easily be

forget.



Clara's heart be all the light because she be sure that Fitzjocelyn

have forgive, and, what be more, forget.  she have speak naturally

to he once more, and be ready for anything now--even though they have

miss all confidential discussion upon school.



she give Charlotte Tom Madison's letter.  the little maiden take it,

and twirl it about rather superciliously.  'what business have my

young Lord,' she think, 'to fancy she care for that poor fellow?

very likely he be improve, and she be glad of it, but she know what

be genteel now.  yes, she would read it at once; there be no fear

that it would make her soft and foolish--she have get above that!'









CHAPTER XVII.



the rival.



  'which king, Bezonian?'--Henry IV.





Sir Roland of Provence remain in suspense whether to be a novice or

an irrevocably pledge Hospitalier.  the latter be most probable; and

when Adeline's feeling have be minutely analyse, Miss Conway

discover that she have well not show her morning's work to her

sister.



Clara and Louis pronounce Jem to be as savage as a bear all through

the journey.  Clara declare it be revenge for having be civil and

amiable all through the vacation; and Louis utter a theatrical aside,

that even _that_ could not have be maintain if he have not

occasionally come to Ormersfield to relieve himself a little upon their

two lordship.



Laugh as he might, Fitzjocelyn be much concerned and perplex by his

cousin's ill-humour, when it appear more permanent than could be

puff off in a few ebullition.  attempt to penetrate the gloom make

it heavy, and Louis resolve to give it time to subside.  he wait

some day before go near James, and when he next walk to his

college find he engage with pupil.  he be himself very busy, and

have miss his cousin several time before he at length find he alone.



'why, Jem, old fellow, what be you about?  you've not be near my

room this term.  be you renounce I in anticipation of my plucking?'



'you willn't be pluck unless you go out of your sense for the

occasion.'



'no thank to your advice and assistance if I be not.  but it would

conduce to my equanimity, Jem, to know whether we be quarrel, as

in that case I should know how to demean myself.'



'I've no quarrel with you.  you have far more reason--but,' add Jem,

catch himself up, 'don't you know I have no leisure for trifling?

the Ordination be the second week in March.'



'the ordination!'



'ay--you know it!  my fellowship depend on it.'



'I never like to contemplate it.'  he sit down and muse, while James

continue his occupation.  presently he say, 'look here.  Sir Miles

Oakstead ask I if I have any clever Oxford friend to recommend.  if

he come into office, he--'



'I'll be no great man's hanger-on.'



'this matter be not imminent.  you be barely four-and-twenty.  wait a

year or two; even a few month would--'



'you have try my forbearance often enough,' break in James; 'my

object be--as you very well know--to maintain myself and mine without

be liable to obnoxious patronage.  if you think I should disgrace

the office, speak out!'



Louis, without raise his eye, only answer with a smile.



'then, what do you mean?  as to your notion of a vocation, ninety-nine

out of a hundred be in my case.  I have be breed up to this--nothing

else be open--I mean to do my duty; and surely that be vocation--no one

have a right to object--'



'no one; I beg your pardon,' meekly say Louis, take up his stick to

go; but both know it be only a feint, and James, whose vehemence be

exhaust itself, resume, in an injure tone, 'what disturb you?

what be this scruple of yours!--you, who sometimes fancy you would have

be a curate yourself!'



'I have just inclination enough to be able to perceive that you have

none.'



'and be every one to follow his bent?'



'this be not a step to be take against the grain, even for the good

earthly motive.  Jem!  I only beg you to ask advice.  for the very

reason that you be irreproachable, you will never have it offer.'



'the present time, for instance?' say James, laugh as good he might.



'that be nothing.  I have no faith in my own judgment, but, think as

I do of the profession and of you, I cannot help believe that my

distaste for see you in it must be an instinct.'



'give I your true opinion and its ground candidly, know that I

would not ask another man live.'



'nor I, if I do not thrust it on you.'



'now for it!  let we hear your objection.'



'simply this.  I do not see that anything impel you to take Holy

Orders immediately, except your wish to be independent, and irrevocably

fix before your uncle can come home.  this seem to I to have a

savour of something inconsistent with what you profess.  it might be

fine anywhere else, but will it not bear be bring into the light

of the sanctuary?  no, I cannot like it.  I have no doubt many go up

for ordination far less fit than you, but--Jem, I wish you would not.

if you would but wait a year!'



'no, Fitzjocelyn, my mind be make up.  I own that I might have

prefer another course, and Heaven know it be not that I think

myself worthy of this; but I have be bring up to this, and I will

not waver.  it be mark out for I as plainly as your earldom for you,

and I will do my duty in it as my appoint calling.  there lie my

course of honest independence: you call it pride--see what those be

who be devoid of it: there lie my mean of educate my sister,

provide for my grandmother.  I can see no scruple that should deter

I.'



Fitzjocelyn having say his say, it be his turn and his nature to be

talk down.



'in short,' conclude James, walk about the room, 'there be no

alternative.  wait for a College living be bad enough, but nothing

else can make happiness even possible.'



'one would think you mean one sort of happiness,' say Louis, with a

calm consider tone, and look of inquiry which James could not brook.



'what else?' he cry.  'Fool and madman that I be to dwell on the

hopeless--'



'why should it be hopeless?--' begin Louis.



'Hush! you be the last person with whom I could discuss this subject,'

he say, try to be fierce, but with more sorrow than anger.  'I must

bear my burthen alone.  believe I, I struggle hard. if you and I be

destine to clash, one comfort be, that even I could never quarrel with

you.'



'I have not the remotest idea of your meaning.'



'so much the well.  no, so much the bad.  you be not capable of

feel what I do for she, or you would have hate I long ago.  do not

stay here!  I do not know that I can quite bear the sight of you--but

don't let I lose you, Louis.'



James wring the hand of his cousin; and no soon be he alone, than he

begin to pace the room distractedly.



'Poor Jem!' soliloquize Fitzjocelyn.  'at least, I be glad the trouble

be love, not the ordination.  but as to his meaning!  he give I to

understand that we be rival--it be the most absurd thing I ever

know--I declare I don't know whether he mean Mary or Isabel.  I

suppose he would consider Mary's fortune a barrier--no, she be too

serene for his storm--worthy, most worthy--but she would hate to be

worship in that wild way.  besides, I be do for in that quarter.

no clash there--! Nay, the other it can never be--after all his

effort to lash I up at Christmas.  yet, he be much with she, he make

Clara sacrifice the clasp to she.  Hm!  she be an embodied romance,

deserve to be rave about; while for poor dear Mary, it would be

simply ridiculous.  I wish I could guess--it be too absurd to doubt,

and bad to ask; and, what's more, he would not stand it.  if I do

but know!  I'm not so far go yet, but that I could leave the field to

he, if that would do he any good.  Heigh ho! it would be en regle to

begin to hate he, and be as jealous as Bluebeard; but there!  I don't

know which it be to be about, and one cann't be jealous for two lady

at once, luckily, for it would be immensely troublesome, unless a good,

hearty quarrel would be wholesome to revive his spirit.  it be a bad

time for it, though! well, I hope he do not mean Mary--I could not

bear for she to be torment by he.  that other creature might reign

over he like the full moon disperse cloud.  well! this be the

queer predicament I ever hear of!'  and on he wander, almost as

much divert by the humour of the doubt, as annoy by the dilemma.



he have no opportunity for farth investigation: James remove himself

so entirely from his society, that he be oblige to conclude that the

prevail mood be that of not be quite able to bear the sight of

he.  his consolation be the hope of an opening for some generous

proceeding, though how this should be accomplish be not visible,

since it be quite as hard to be generous with other people's heart as

to confer a benefit on a Pendragon.  at any rate, he be so confident

of Jem's superiority, as to have no fear of carry off the affection

of any one whom his cousin wish to win.



James be ordain, and shortly after go to some pupil for the

Easter vacation, which be spend by Louis at Christchurch, in study

hard.  the preparation for go up for his degree end by absorb

he entirely, as do every other pursuit to which he once fairly

devote himself, and for the first time he give his ability full

scope in the field that ought long ago to have occupy they. when,

finally, a third class be award to he, he be conscious that it

might have be a first, but for his past waste of time.



he be sorry to leave Oxford: he have be happy there in his own

desultory fashion; and the additional time that his illness have keep

he an undergraduate, have be welcome as defer the dread moment

of consider what be to come next.  he have reach man's estate

almost against his will.



he be to go to join his father in London; and he carry thither

humiliation for have, by his own fault, miss the honour that too

late he have begin to value as a means of gratify his father.



the Earl, however, could hardly have take anything amiss from Louis.

after have for so many year withhold all the lassez-aller of

paternal affection, when the right chord have once be touch, his

fondness for his grown-up son have the fresh exulting pride, and almost

blindness that would ordinarily have be lavish on his infancy.

Lord Ormersfield's sentiment be few and slowly adopt, but they have

all the permanence and force of his strong character, and his affection

for Fitzjocelyn partook both of parental glory in a promising only son,

and of that tenderness, at once protect and dependent, that father

feel for daughter.  this be owe partly to Louis's gentle and

assiduous attention during the last vacation, and also to his long

illness, and remarkable resemblance to his mother, which render

fondness of he a sort of tribute to she, and restore to the Earl some

of the transient happiness of his life.



it be a second youth of the affection, but it be purchase by a step

towards age.  the anxiety, fatigue, and various emotion of the past

year have tell on the Earl, and though still strong, vigorous, and

healthy, the first touch of autumn have fall on he--he do not find

his solitary life so self-sufficing as formerly, and crave the home

feeling of the past Christmas.  so the welcome be twice as warm as

Louis have expect; and as he see the melancholy chase away, the stern

grey eye light up, and the thin, compress lip relax into a

smile, he forget his aversion to the well-appoint room in Jermyn

Street, and sincerely apologize that he have not bring home more

credit to satisfy his father.



'Oakstead be talk it over with I,' be the answer; 'and we

reckon up many more third-class man than first who have distinguish

themselves.'



'many thank to Sir Miles,' say Louis, laugh.  'my weak mind would

never have devise such consolation.'



'perhaps the exclusive devotion to study which attain higher honour

may not be the beat introduction to practical life.'



'it be do the immediate work with the whole might.'



'you do work with all your might.'



'ay! but too many iron in the fire, and none of they red-hot through,

have be my bane.'



'you do not set out in life without experience; I be glad your

education be finish, Louis!' say his father, turn to contemplate

he, as if the sight fill up some void.



'be you?' say Louis, wearily.  'I don't think I be.  it become my

duty--or your, which be a relief--to find out the next stage.'



'have you no wish?'



'not at the present speaking, thank you.  if I go out and talk to

any one, I might have too many.'



'no view for your future life?'



'thus far: to do as little harm as may be--to be of some use at

home--and to make turnip grow in the upland at Inglewood, I have some

vague fancy to see foreign part, especially now they be all in such a

row--it would be such fun--but I suppose you would not trust I there

now.  here I be for you to do as you please with I--a gracious

permission, consider that you do not want it.  only the first

practical question be how to get this money from Jem to Clara.  I

should like to call on she, but I suppose that would hardly be

accord to the propriety.'



'I would walk to the school with you, if you wish to see she.  my aunt

will be glad to hear of she, if we go home to-morrow.'



'be you think of go home?' exclaim Louis, joyfully come to

life.



'yes; but for a cause that will grieve you.  Mrs. Ponsonby be bad,

and have write to ask I to come down.'



'materially bad?'



'I fear so.  I show my aunt's letter to Hastings, who say it be the

natural course of the disease, but that he think it would have be

less speedy.  I fear it have be hasten by report from Peru. she have

decide on go out again; but the agitation overthrow she, and she

have be sink ever since,' say Lord Ormersfield, mournfully.



'Poor Mary!'



'for her sake I must be on the spot, if for no other cause.  if I have

but a home to offer she!'



Louis give a deep sigh, and presently ask for more detail of Mrs.

Ponsonby's state.



'I believe she be still able to sit up and employ herself at time, but

she often suffer dreadfully.  they be both wonderfully cheerful.  she

have little to regret.'



'what a loss she will be!  oh, father! what will you do without she?'



'I be glad that you have know she.  she have be more than a sister to

I.  thing might have be very different, if that miserable marriage

have not separate we for so many year.'



'how could it have happen?  how be it that she--so good and

wise--do not see through the man?'



'she would, if she have be leave to herself; but she be not.  my

mother discover, when too late, that there have be foolish,

impertinent joke of that unfortunate trifl, poor Henry Frost, that

make she imagine herself suspect of design on I.'



'Mary would never have attend to such folly!' cry Louis.



'Mary be old.  besides, she love the man, or think she do. I

believe she think herself attach to he still.  but for Mary's

birth, there would have be a separation long ago.  there ought to

have be; but, after my father's death, there be no one to interfere!

what would I not have give to have be her brother! well!  I never

could see why one like she be so visited--!' then rouse himself, as

though tender reminiscence be waste of time, he add, 'there you

see the cause of the caution I give you with regard to Clara Dynevor.

it be not fair to expose a young woman to misconstruction and idle

comment, which may goad she to vindicate her dignity by act in a

manner fatal to her happiness.  now,' he add, having draw his moral,

'if we be to call on Clara, this would be the fit time.  I have

engage for we both to dine at Lady Conway's this evening: I think

you would not object.'



'thank you; but I be sure you cannot wish to go out after such news.'



'there be not sufficient excuse for refuse.  there be to be no party,

and it would be a marked thing to avoid it.'



Louis hazard a suggestion that the meeting with Clara would be to

little purpose if they be all to sit in state in the drawing-room;

and she be ask for on the plea of go to see the new Houses of

Parliament.  the Earl of Ormersfield's card and compliment go

upstairs, and Miss Frost Dynevor appear, with a demure and astonish

countenance, which change instantly to ecstasy when she see that the

Earl be not alone.  not at all afraid of love, but only of

misconstruction, he goodnaturedly keep aloof, while Clara, cling to

Louis's arm, be guide through the street, and in and out among the

block of carve stone on the bank of the Thames, intersperse her

note of admiration and his note on heraldry with more comfortable

confidence than have fall to their lot through the holiday.



his first hope be that Clara might reveal some fact to throw light on

the object of her brother's affection, but her remark only add to

his perplexity.  once, when they have be talk of poor Mary, and

lament her fate in have to return to her father, Louis hazard

the conjecture that she might find an english home.



'there be her aunt in Bryanston Square,' say Clara.  'or if she would

only live with we!  you see I be grow wise, as you call it: I like

she now.'



'that may be fortunate,' say Louis.  'you know her destination

accord to Northwold gossip.'



'Nonsense!  Jem would scorn an heiress if she be ten time pretty.

he will never have an escutcheon of pretence like the one on the old

soup tureen that the Lady of Eschalott break, and Jane be so sorry for

because it be the last of the old Cheveleigh china.'



Louis make another experiment.  'have you repent yet of give away

your clasp?'



'no, indeed!  Miss Conway always wear it.  she should be richly

welcome to anything I have in the world.'



'you and Jem see much more of they than I do.'



'whose fault be that?  Jem be always rave about your stupidity in

stay at home.'



he begin to question whether his interview with James have be a dream.

as they be walk back towards the school, Clara go on to tell he

that Lady Conway have call and take she to a rehearsal of a concert

of ancient music, and that Isabel have take she for one or two drive

into the country.



'this must conduce to make school endurable,' say Louis.



'I think I hate it more because I hate it less.'



'Translate, if you please.'



'the first half-year, I scorn they all, and they scorn I; and that

be comfortable--'



'and consistent.  well?'



'the next, you have disturb I; I could not go on be savage with

the same satisfaction, and their tuft-hunt temper begin to discharge

itself in such civility to I, that I could not give myself air with

any peace.'



'have you make no friend?'



one and a half.  the whole one be a good, rough, stupid girl, who come

to school because she cann't learn, and be worth all the rest put

together.  the half be Caroline Salter, who be openly and honestly

purse-proud, have no toad-eat in her nature, and straight-forwardly

contemn high-blood and no money.  we fight ourselves into respect for

one another; and now, I verily believe, we be fight ourselves into

friendship.  she be the only one that be proud, not vain; so we

understand each other.  as to the rest, they adore Caroline Halter's

enamel watch one day; and the next, I should be their 'dearest' if I

would but tell they what we have for dinner at Ormersfield, and what

colour your eye be!'



'the encounter have make you so epigrammatic and satirical, that there

be no come near you.'



'oh, Louis! if you know all, you would despise I as I do myself! I do

sometimes get draw into talk grandly about Ormersfield; and though

I always say what I be to be, I know that I be as vain and proud as any

of they: I be proud of be poor, and of the Pendragons, and of not

be silly!  I don't know which be self-respect, and which be pride!'



'I have always have my doubt about that quality of self-respect. I

never could make out what one be to respect.'



'oh, dear! les voila!' cry Clara, as, enter Hanover Square, they

behold about twenty damsel come out of the garden in couple.  'I

would not have have it happen for the whole world!' she add, abruptly

withdraw the arm that have clung to he so trustfully across many a

perilous crossing.



she seem to intend to slip into the rank without any farewell, but

the Earl, with politeness that almost confound the little elderly

governess, return thank for having be permit the pleasure of

her company, and Louis, between mischief and good-nature, would not

submit to anything but a hearty, cousinly squeeze of the hand, nor

relinquish it till he have force she to utter articulately the message

to grandmamma that she have be mutter with her head avert.  at

last it be speak sharply, and her hand draw petulantly away, and,

without look back at he, her high, stiff head vanish into the

house, tower above the bright rainbow of ribbon, veil, and

parasol.



the evening would have be very happy, have not Lord Ormersfield look

imperturbably grave and inaccessible to his sister-in-law's

blandishment.  she do not use the most likely mean of disarm he

when she speak of make a tour in the summer.  it have be a long

promise that Isabel and Virginia should go to see their old governess

at Paris; but if France still be in too disturb a state, they might

enjoy themselves in Belgium, and perhaps her dear Fitzjocelyn would

accompany they as their escort.



his eye have glitter at the proposal before he recollect the sorrow

that threaten his father, and begin to decline, protest that he

should be the bad escort in the world, since he always attract

accident and adventure.  but his aunt, discover that he have never

be abroad, become doubly urgent, and even appeal to his father.



'as far as I be concern, Fitzjocelyn may freely consult his own

inclination,' say the Earl, so gravely, that Lady Conway could only

turn aside the subject by a laugh, and assurance that she do not mean

to give he up.  she begin to talk of James Frost, and her wish to

secure he a second time as Walter's tutor in the holiday.



'you have well take he with you,' say Louis; 'he would really be of

use to you, and how he would enjoy the sight of foreign part!'



Isabel raise her head with a look of approbation, such as encourage

he to come a little nearer, and apeak of the pleasure that her

kindness have give to Clara.



'there be a high spirit and originality about Clara, which make she a

most amusing companion.'



Isabel reply, 'I be very glad of an hour with she, especially now

that I be without my sister.'



'she must be such a riddle to her respectable school-fellow, that

intercourse beyond they must be doubly valuable.'



'poor child!  be there no hope for she but go out as a governess?'



'unluckily, we have no Church patronage for her brother; the only

likely escape--unless, indeed, the uncle in Peru, whom I begin to

regard as rather mythical, should send an unavoidable shower of gold on

they.'



'I hope not,' say Isabel, 'I could almost call their noble poverty a

sacred thing.  I never see anything so beautiful as the reverent

affection show to Mrs. Dynevor on Walter's birthday, when she be the

queen of the Night, and look it, and her old pupil vie with each

other in do her honour.  I have remember the scene so often in

look at our fade dowager here.'



'I would defy Midas to make my Aunt Catharine a fade dowager,' say

Louis.



'no; but he could have rob their homage of half--nay, all its grace.'



they talk of Northwold, and Isabel mention various detail of Mrs.

Ponsonby, which she have learn from Miss King, and talk of Mary with

great feeling and affection.  never have Louis have anything so like a

conversation with Isabel, and he be more bewitched than ever by the

enthusiasm and depth of sensibility which she no long conceal by

coldness and reserve.  in fact, she have come to regard he as an

accessory of Northwold, and be delighted to enjoy some exchange of

sympathy upon terrace subject--above all, when separate from the

school-room party.  Time have bring she to perceive that the fantastic

Viscount do not always wear motley, and it be almost as refreshing as

meeting with Clara, to have some change from the two world in which

she live.  in her imaginary world, Adeline have just be rescue from

the Corsairs by a knight hospitali, with his vizor down, and be

be conduct home by he, with equal probability of his die at

her foot of a conceal mortal wound, or conduct she to her convent

gate, and go off to be kill by the Moors.  the world of gaiety be

more hollow and wearisome than ever; and the summon be as unwelcome

to she as to Fitzjocelyn, when Lord Ormersfield remind he that the

lady be go to an evening party, and that it be time to take

leave.



'come with we, Fitzjocelyn,' say his aunt.  'they would be charm to

have you;' and she mention some lion, whose name make Louis look at

his father.



'I will send the carriage for you,' say the Earl; but Louis have learn

to detect the tone of melancholy reluctance in that apparently

unalterable voice, and at once refuse.  perhaps it be for that reason

that Isabel let he put on her opera-cloak and hand she down stair.

'I don't wonder at you,' she say; 'I wish I could do the same.'



'I wish it at first,' he answer; 'but I could not have go without

a heavy heart.'



'be you young enough to expect to go to any gaiety without a heavy

heart?'



'I be sorry for you,' say he, in his peculiar tone: 'I suppose I be

your elder.'



'I be almost twenty-_four_,' she say, with emphasis.



'indeed!  that must be the age for care, to judge by the change it have

work in Jem Frost.'



the word be prompt by a keen, sudden desire to mark their effect;

but he fail to perceive any, for they be in a dark part of the

entry, and her face be turn away.



'Fitzjocelyn,' say the Earl, on the way home, 'do not think it

necessary to look at I whenever you receive an invitation.  it make

we both appear ridiculous, and you be in every respect your own

master.'



'I have rather not, thank you,' say Louis, in an almost provokingly

indifferent tone.



'it be full time you should assume your own guidance.'



'how little he know how little that would suit he!' think Louis,

sigh despondingly.  'be I call on to sacrifice myself in

everything, and never even satisfy he?'









CHAPTER XVIII.



rest for the WEARY.



  therefore, arm thee for the strife

  all throughout this mortal life,

  soldier now and servant true,

  Earth behind, and heaven in view.

                       REV. I. WILLIAMS.





the first impression on arrive at Northwold be, that the danger have

be magnify.  Mrs. Frost's buoyant spirit have rise at the first

respite; and though there be a weight on Mary's brow, she speak

cheerfully, and as if able to attend to other interest, tell Louis

of her father's wish for some good workman to superintend the mine,

and ask he to consult his friend at Illershall on the subject.



Lord Ormersfield come down encourage by his visit to the invalid, whom

he have find dressed and able to converse nearly as usual.  she beg

he to come to dinner the next day, and spend the evening with she,

promise with a smile that if he would bring Louis, their aunt should

chaperon Mary.



when the Earl go upstairs after dinner, the other three close round

the fire, and talk in a tranquil, subdue strain, on various topic,

sometimes grave, sometimes enliven by the playfulness inherent in two

of the party.  Aunt Kitty speak of her early day, and Louis and Mary

venture question that they would have ordinarily deem intrusive.

yet it be less the matter than the manner of their dialogue--the deep,

unavowed fellow-feeling and mutual reliance--which render it so

refreshing and full of a kind of repose.  Louis feel it like the

strange bright stillness, when bird sing their clear, full

note, and the horizon reach of sky beam with the soft, bright

radiance, just ere it be close out by the thunder-cloud, whose first

drop be pause to descend; and to Mary it be peace--peace which she

be willing gratefully to taste to the utmost, from the instinctive

perception that the call have come for she to brace all her power of

self-control and fortitude; while to the dear old aunt, besides she

enjoyment of her darling's presence, each hour be a boon that she

could believe the patient or the daughter, relieved and happy.



Louis be admit for a few minute' visit to the sick-chamber, and

go up believe that he ought to be playful and cheerful; but he be

nearly overcome by Mrs. Ponsonby's own brightness, as she hope that

her daughter and aunt have make themselves agreeable.



'thank you, I never be so comfortable, not even when my foot be bad.'



'I believe you consider that a great compliment.'



'yes, I never be so much off my own mind, nor on other people's:' and

the recollection of all he owe to Mrs. Ponsonby's kindness rush

over he, he look so much affected, that Mary be afraid of his

giving way, and speak of other matter; her mother respond, and he

come away quite reassure, and believe Mrs. Frost's augury that at

the next call, the invalid would be in the drawing-room.



on the way home, however, his father overthrow such hope, and make he

aware of the true state of the case,--namely, that this be but the

lull before another attack, which, whether it come within week or

day, would probably be the last.



'do Mary know?'



'she do.  she bear up nobly.'



'and what be to become of she?'



the Earl sigh deeply.  'Lima be her destiny.  her mother be bent on

it, and say that she wish it herself; but on one thing I be

resolve: she shall not go alone!  I have tell her mother that I will

go with she, and not leave she without see what kind of home that

man have for she.  Mary--the mother, I mean--persist in declare that

he have real affection for his child, and that her presence will save

he.'



'if anything could--' break out Louis.



'it should! it ought; but I do not trust he.  I know Robert Ponsonby

as his wife have never choose to know he.  this be not a time for

disguise, and I tell she plainly what I think of risk her daughter

out there.  but she call it Mary's duty--say that he be fully to be

trust where his child be concern, and that Mary be no stranger at

Lima, but could take care of herself, and have many friend besides

Oliver Dynevor there.  but I tell she that go with she I would!'



'you to take the voyage!  be not she glad?'



'I think she be relieve; but she be over-grateful and distressed,

and entreat I to be patient with he.  she need not fear.  I never

be a hasty man; and I shall only remember that she bear his name, and

that he be Mary's father--provide always that it be fit Mary should

remain with he.  miserable!  I can understand that death may well come

as a friend--but her daughter!' he exclaim, give way more than he

might have do anywhere but in the dark; 'how can she endure to leave

she to such a father--to such prospect!'



'she know it be not only to such a father that she leave she,'

murmur Louis.



'her word--almost her word,' say the Earl, between earnestness and

impatience; 'but when these thing come to press reality, it be

past I how such saying be a consolation.'



'not if they be no more than saying.'



there be silence.  Louis hear an occasional groaning sigh from his

father, and sit still, with feeling strongly move, and impel to

one of his sudden and impetuous resolution.



the next morning, he order his horse, say he would bring the last

report from the Terrace.



that afternoon, Mrs. Ponsonby observe a tremulousnea in Mary's hand,

and a willingness to keep her face turn away; and, on more minute

glance, a swelling of the eyelid be detect.



'my dear,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, 'you should take a walk to-day.  pray go

out with the conway.'



'oh no, thank you, mamma.'



'if the cousin come in from Ormersfield, I shall tell Louis to take

you to look at his farm.  it would be very good for you--my dear, what

be it?' for Mary's ear and neck, all that she could see, be crimson.



'oh, mamma! he have be do it again.  I do not mean to have tell

you--' say Mary, the strong will to be calm force back the tear and

even the flush.



'Nay, dear child, nothing can hurt I now.  you must let I share all

with you to the last. what do you say to he?'



'I tell he that I could not think of such thing now,' say Mary,

almost indignantly.



'and he?'



'he beg my pardon, and say he only do it because he think it

might be a relief to you.'



'only; do he say 'only?'



'I be not sure.  at least,' she add, with a deep sigh, 'I think he

mean only--'



'and you, my dearest, if you have not think he mean _only_?'



'don't ask I, mamma; I cannot think about it!'



'Mary, dearest, I do wish to understand you.'



'be it of any use for I to ask myself?' say Mary.



'I think it be.  I do not say that there might not be insuperable

obstacle; but I believe we ought to know whether you be still

indifferent to Louis.'



'oh, that I never be!  nobody could be!'



'you know what I mean,' say her mother, slightly smile.



'Mamma, I don't know what to say,' reply Mary, after a pause.  'I have

think it wrong to let my thought take that course; but when he speak

in his own soft, gentle voice, I feel, and I cann't help it,

that--he--could--comfort--I--well--than--any one.'



not hesitate, but slowly, almost inaudibly, she bring out the

word; and, as the tear gush out irrepressibly with the last, she

hasten from the room, and be see no more till she have recover

composure, and seem to have dismiss the subject.



Louis keep this second attempt a secret; he be not quite sure how he

feel, and do not wish to discuss his rejection.  at breakfast, he

receive a note from Mrs. Ponsonby, beg he to come to the terrace

at three o'clock; and the hope thus revive make he more

conversational than he have be all the former day.



he find that Mary be out walk, and he be at once conduct to

Mrs. Ponsonby's room, where he look exceedingly rosy and confused,

till she begin by hold out her hand, and say, 'I wish to thank

you.'



'I be afraid I vex Mary,' say Louis, with more than his usual

simplicity; 'but do you think there be no hope?  I know it be a bad

time, but I think it might make you more at ease on her account.'



'you mean all that be most kind.'



'I think I might just try,' pursue he, disconsolately, 'whether she

do think I any steadier.  I hope she do not think I very

troublesome.  I try not to harass her much.'



'my dear Louis, it be not a question of what you call steadiness.  it

be the old story of last summer, when you think we old one so much

more romantic than yourself.'



'you be think of Miss Conway,' say Louis, blushing, but with

curious naivete.  'well, I have be think of that, and I really do

not believe there be anything in it.  I do make myself rather a fool

at Beauchastel, and Jem would have make I a great one; but you know

my father put a stop to it.  think her handsomer than other people

cann't be love, can it?'



'not alone, certainly.'



'and actually,' he pursue, 'I don't believe I ever think of she when I

be out of the way of she!  no, indeed! if I have not believe that be

all over, do you think I could have say what I do yesterday?'



'not unless you believe so.'



'well, but really you don't consider how little I have see of she. I

be in awe of she at first, and since, I have keep away on purpose. I

never get on with she at all till the other evening.  I don't believe I

care for her one bit.  then,' suddenly pause, and change his tone,

'you don't trust I after all.'



'I do.  I trust your principle and kindness implicitly, but I think the

very innocence of your heart prevent you from know what you be

about.'



'it be very hard,' say Louis; 'every one will have it that I must be

in love, till I shall have to believe so myself, and when I know it

cannot come to good.'



'you be make yourself more simple than you really be,' say Mra.

Ponsonby, half provoke.



Louis shut his eye, and seem to be rouse his faculty; then,

take a new turn, he earnestly say, 'you know that the promise must

settle the question, and keep my affection fast.'



'ah, Louis! there be the point.  other, true and sincere as yourself,

have break their own heart, and those of other, from have make

vow in wilful ignorance of latent feeling.  it would be a sin in I

to allow you to bind yourself to Mary, with so little comprehension as

you have of your own sentiment.'



'then I have do wrong in propose it.'



'what would have be wrong in some case, be more of blindness--ay,

and kindness--in you.  Louis, I cannot tell you my gratitude for your

wish to take care of my dear girl,' she say, with tear in her eye.

'I hope you fully understand I.'



'I see I have make a fool of myself again, and that you have a right to

be very angry with I.'



'not quite,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, smile, 'but I be go to give you

some advice.  settle your mind as to Miss Conway.  your father be

begin to perceive that his distrust be undeserve; he have promise

I not to object in case it should be for your true happiness; and I do

believe, for my own part, that, in some respect, she be well fit

for his daughter-in-law than my poor Mary.'



'no one ever be half as good as Mary!' cry Louis.  'and this be what

you tell I!'



'Mind, I don't tell you to propose to she, nor to commit yourself in

any way: I only tell you to put yourself in a position to form a

reasonable judgment of your own feeling.  that be due to she, to

yourself, and to your wife, be she who she may.'



Louis sigh, and presently add, smile, 'I be not go to rave

about preference for another; but I do want to know whether anything

can be do for poor Jem Frost.'



'ha! have he anything of this kind on his mind?'



'he do it in grand style--disconsolate, frantic, and frosty; but he

puzzle I completely by disclose nothing but that he have no hope,

and think I his rival.  can nothing be do?'



'no, Louis,' say Mrs. Ponsonby, decidedly; 'I have no idea that there

be anything in that quarter.  what may be on his mind, I cannot tell: I

be sure that he be not on Mary's.'



Louis rise.  'I have tired you,' he say, 'and you be very patient

with my foolery.'



'you have be very patient with many a lecture of mine, Louis.'



'there be very few who would have think I worth lecture.'



'ah, Louis! if I do not like you so well for what you be, I should

still feel the right to lecture you, when I remember the night I

carry you to your father, and try to make he believe that you

would be his comfort and blessing. I think you have teach he the

lesson at last!'



'you have do it all,' say Louis, with deep feeling.



'and now, may I say what more I want to see in you?  if you could

acquire more resolution, more manliness--will you pardon my saying so?'



'ah!  I have always find myself the identical weak man that all book

give up as a hopeless case,' say Louis, accept the imputation more

easily than she could have suppose possible.



'no,' she say, vigorously, 'you have not come to your time of life

without opening to evil that you could not have resist if you have

be really weak.'



'Distaste--and rather a taste for be quiz,' say Louis.



'those be not weakness.  your will be indolent, and you take refuge in

fancy that you want strength.  rouse yourself, not to be drift

about--make a line for yourself.'



'my father will have I walk in no line but his own.'



'you have sense not to make duty to he an excuse for indolence and

dislike of responsibility.  you have often disappoint yourself by

act precipitately; and now you be throw yourself prone upon he,

in a way that be unwise for you both.'



'I don't know what to do!' say Louis.  'when I think the aim of my

life be to be to devote myself to his wish, you--ay, and he

too--tell I to stand alone.'



'it will be a disappointment to he, if you do not act and decide for

yourself--yes, and bad than disappointment.  he know what your

devotional habit be; and if he see you want in firmness or

energy, he will set down all the rest as belong to the soft part

of your nature.'



'on the contrary,' exclaim Louia, indignantly, 'all the resolution I

ever show come from nothing else!'



'I know it.  let he see that these thing make a man of you; and,

Louis--you feel what a difference it might make!'



Louis bow his head thoughtfully.



'you, who be both son and daughter to he, may give up scheme and

pleasure for his sake, and may undertake work for which you have no

natural turn; but, however you may cross your inclination, never be

lead contrary to your judgment.  then, and with perseverance, I think

you will be safe.'



'perseverance--your old lesson.'



'yes; you must learn to work over the moment when novelty be go and

failure begin, even though your father should treat the matter as a

crotchet of your own.  if you know it be worth do, go on, and he

will esteem you and it.'



'my poor private judgment! you work it hard! when it have generally only

run I full-drive into some egregious blunder!'



'not your true deliberate judgment, exercise with a sense of

responsibility.  Humility must not cover your laziness.  you have such

quality and such talent as must be intend to do good to other,

not to be trifle away in fitful exertion.  make it your great effort

to see clearly, and then to proceed steadfastly, without slacken

either from weariness or the persuasion of other.'



'and you willn't let I have the one person who can see clearly, and keep

I steady?'



'to be your husband, instead of your wife!  no, Louis; you must learn

to take yourself on your own hand, and lean neither on your father,

nor on any one else on earth, before you can be fit for Mary, or--'



'and if I do?' begin Louis.



'you would make a man of yourself,' she say, interrupt he. 'that

be the first thing--not a reed shake with the wind.  you can do it;

there be nothing that Grace cannot do.'



'I know there be not,' say Louis, reverently.



'and, oh! the blessing that you would so bring on yourself and on your

dear father!  you have already learn to make he happy than I ever

look to see he; and you must be energetic and consistent, that so he

may respect, not you, but the power which can give you the strength.'



Louis's heart be too full to make any answer.  Mrs. Ponsonby lie back

in her chair, as though exhaust by the energy with which she have

speak the last word; and there be a long silence.  he think he

ought to go, and yet could not resolve to move.  at last she

spoke--'Good-bye, Louis.  come what may, I know Mary will find in you

the--all that I have find your father.'



'thank you, at least, for say that,' say Louis.  'if you would only

hold out a hope--I wish it more than ever now!  I do not believe that I

should ever do as well with any one else!  will you not give I any

prospect?'



'be certain of your own heart, Louis!  Nay,' as she see his face

brighten, 'do not take that as a promise.  let I give you a few

parting word, as the motto I should like to leave with you--'Quit

yourself like man; be strong.'  and so, Louis, whatever be your fix

and resolute purpose, so it be accordant with the will of Heaven, you

would surely, I believe, attain it, and well do you know how I should

rejoice to see'--She break off, and say, more feebly, 'I must not go

on any long.  let I wish you good-bye, Louis: I have love you only

less than my own child!'



Louis knelt on one knee beside she, hold her hand, and bow down his

face to hide the shower of tear that fall, while a mother's kiss and a

mother's blessing be on his brow.



he go down stair, and out of the house, and take his horse from the

inn stable, without one word to any one.  the ostler say to each

other that the young Lord be in great trouble about the lady at the

Terrace.



Mary come home; and if she know why that long walk have be urge on

she, she give no sign.  she see her mother wear and tired, and she

restrain all perception that she be conscious that there have be

agitation.  she speak quietly of the spring flower that she have see,

and of the people whom she have meet; she give her mother her tea, and

move about with almost an increase of the study quietness of the

sick-room.  only, when Mrs. Frost come in for an hour, Mary draw back

into a corner with her knitting, and do not speak.



'Mary,' say her mother, when she come back from light her aunt down

stair, 'come to I, my child.'



Mary come, and her mother take both her hand.  they be chilly; and

there be a little pulse on Mary's temple that visibly throb, and

almost seem to leap, with fearful rapidity.



'dear child, I have no power to talk before, or I would not have keep

you in suspense.  I be afraid it will not do.'



'I be sure of it,' say Mary, almost in a whisper.  'dear mamma, you

should not have vex and tired yourself.'



'I comfort myself,' say Mrs. Ponsonby; 'I say thing to he that I

have long to say, and how beautifully he take they!  but I could not

feel that he know what he be about much well than he do the first

time.'



'it would not be right,' say Mary, in her old tone.



'I think your father might have be persuade.  I would have write,

and do my utmost--'



'oh, mamma, anything rather than you should have that worry!'



'and I think thing will be different--he be soften, and will be more

so.  but it be foolish to talk in this way, and it may be well that the

trial should not be make; though that be not the reason I answer

Louis as I do.'



'I suppose it will be Miss Conway,' say Mary, try to smile.



'at least, it ought to be no one else till he have see enough of she to

form a judgment without the charm of prohibition; and this he may do

without commit himself, as they be so nearly connected.  I must

ask his father to give he distinct permission, and then I shall have

do with these thing.'



Mary would not break the silence, nor recall she to earthly interest;

but she return to the subject, say, wistfully, 'can you tell I

that you be content, dear child?'



'quite content, thank you, mamma--I be certain it be right,' say Mary.

'it would be take a wrong advantage of his compassion.  I fall too

far short of what would be want to make he happy.'



she speak firmly, but her eye be full of tear.  her mother feel as

if no one could fail of happiness with Mary, but, control the

impulse, say, 'it be good, dear; for you could not bear to feel

yourself unable to make he happy, or to fancy he might have more peace

without you.  my dear, your prospect be not all I could have wish or

plan, but this would be too cruel.'



'it be my duty to go to papa,' say Mary.  'what would be selfish could

not turn out well.'



'if you could be sure of his feeling--if he be only less strangely

youthful--no,' she add, break off, as if rebuke herself, 'it be

not to be think of, but I do not wonder at you, my poor Mary--I never

see any one so engaging, nor in whom I could place such confidence.'



'I be so glad!' say Mary, gratefully.  'you use not to have that

confidence.'



'I fear his being lead.  now I feel as sure as any one can dare of his

goodness.  but I have be talk to he about self-reliance and

consistency.  he be so devoid of ambition, and so inert and diffident

when not in an impetuous fit, that I dread his do no good as well as

no evil.'



Mary shake her head.  do she repress the expression of the sense that

her arm have sometimes give he steadiness and fix his aim?'



'the resemblance to his mother strike I more than ever,' continue

Mrs. Ponsonby.  'there be far more mind and soul, but almost the same

nature--all bright, indolent sweetness, crave for something to lean

on, but he show what she might have be with the same principle.

dear boy! may he do well!'



'he will be very happy with Miss Conway,' say Mary.  'she will learn

to appreciate all he say and do--her enthusiasm will spur he on. I

shall hear of they.'



the unbreathed sigh seem to be add to the weight of oppression on

Mary's patient breast; but she keep her eye steady, her brow unruffled.



all the joy do indeed appear to be pass from she with her mother,

and she feel as if she should never know another hour of gladness, nor

of rest in full free open-hearted confidence, but she could not dwell

either on herself or on the future, and each hour that her mother be

spare to she be too precious to be waste or profane by aught that

be personal.



Mrs. Ponsonby herself realize the weary soon to be at rest, the

harass well nigh beyond the reach of troubling.  she treat each

earthly care and interest as though there be peace in lay it down

for the last time.  at interval, as she be able, she write a long

letter to her husband, to accompany the tiding of her death; and she

hold several conversation with Mary on her conduct for the future.

she hope much from Mary's influence, for Mr. Ponsonby be fond of his

daughter, and would not willingly display himself in his bad colour

before she; and Mary's steadiness of spirit and nerve might succeed,

where her own liability to tear and trembling have always be a

provocation.  her want of judgment in openly prefer her own

relation to his uncongenial sister have sow seed of estrangement and

discord which have give Mrs. Ponsonby some cause for self-reproach, and

she feel great hope that her daughter would prevail where she have

fail.  there be little danger that he would not show Mary affection

enough to make her home-duty labour of love; and at her age, and

with her disposition, she could both take care of herself, and be an

unconscious restraint on her father.  the trust and hope that she would

be the mean of wean her father from evil, and bring he home a

change man, be Mrs. Ponsonby's last bright vision.



as to scruple on Lord Ormersfield become Mary's escort on the

voyage, Mrs. Ponsonby perceive his determination to be fix beyond

remonstrance.  perhaps she could neither regret that her daughter

should have such a protector, nor bear to reject his last kindness; and

she might have linger hope of the consequence of his meeting she

husband, at a time when the heart of both would be soften.



these matter arrange, she close out the world.  Louis see she but

once again, when other word than their own be speak, and when the

scene bring back to he a like one which have seem his own farewell

to this earth.  his thread of life be lengthen--here be the moment

to pray that it might be strengthen.  firm purpose be waken

within he, and the battle-cry rang again in his ears--'Quit yourself

like man; be strong!'



his eye seek Mary.  she look, indeed, like one who could 'suffer

and be strong.'  her brow be calm, though as if a load sit on she,

bear too patiently to mar her peace.  the end shine upon she, though

the path might be hide in gloom: one step at a time be enough, and she

be blest above all in her mother's good hope.



a hush be on they all, as though they be watch while a tired,

overtasked child sink to rest.



there be a space of suffering, when Mary and Miss Mercy do all that

love could do, and keep Mrs. Frost from the sight of what she could

neither cheer nor alleviate, and when all she could do be to talk over

the past with Lord Ormersfield.



then come a brief interval of relief and consciousness, precious for

ever to Mary's recollection.  the last word of aught beneath were--'My

dearest love to your father.  tell he I know now how much he have to

forgive.'



the tender, impulsive, overhasty spirit have work for itself some of

the trial that have chasten and perfect it, even while break

down the earthly tabernacle, so as to set free the weary soul, to enter

into Rest!









CHAPTER XIX.



MOONSHINE.



  he talk of dagger and of dart,

    of passion and of pain,

  of weep eye and wound heart,

    of kiss and of chain:

  but still the lady shake her head,

    and swear by yea and nay,

  my whole be all that he have say,

    and all that he could say.

                     W. MACKWORTH PRAED.





Mary's strength give way.  she be calm and self-possess as ever, she

see Lord Ormersfield, write to her aunt, make all necessary

arrangement, and, after the funeral, move to Mrs. Frost's house. but,

though not actually ill, she be incapable of exertion, could not walk

up stair without fatigue; and after write a letter, or look over

paper, Aunt Catharine would find she lean back, so wan and

exhaust, that she could not resist be lay down to rest on the

sofa.



she shrink from see any fresh face, and the effort of talk to the

Earl result in such weariness and quiet depression, that Mrs. Frost

dared not press she to admit any one else, except Louis, who ride to

the terrace almost every day; but when the kind aunt, believe there

must be solace in the sight of her boy, beg to bring he in, Mary

answer, with unusual vehemence, 'pray don't: tell he I cannot see

any one.'  and when Mrs. Frost return from a sorrowful talk with

Louis, she believe that Mary have be weep.



Louis be sad enough.  out of the few friend of his childhood he could

ill afford to lose one, and he grieve much for his father, to whom the

loss be very great.  the Earl strove, in his old fashion, to stifle

sorrow in letter of business, but could not succeed: the result be,

that he would discuss the one, Mary's past, and the other, Mary's

future, till time wax so short that he gladly accept his son's

assistance.  conversation with Richardson and order to Frampton

devolve on Louis, and the desire to do no mischief cause he to

employ his intellect in acquire a new habit of attention and accuracy.



his reverence for Mary be double, and he be much concerned at his

exclusion, attribute it to his mistimed proposal, and become

sensible that he have act boyishly and without due respect.  with a

longing desire to do anything for she, he dared not even send she a

greeting, a flower, or a book, lest it should appear an intrusion; and

but for his mournful look, his aunt would have be almost vex at

his so often prevent she from go to make another attempt to

induce his cousin to see he.



Mary first rouse herself on find that Lord Ormersfield be take

it for grant that she would wait to hear from her father before

sailing for Peru.  the correspondence which have pass since her mother

have begin to decline, have convince she that he expect and wish for

she without loss of time, and the vessel whose captain he chiefly

trust be to sail at the end of May.  she entreat to be allow to

go alone, declare that she have no fear, and would not endure that

the Earl should double Cape Horn on her account; but he stand fast--he

would not be deprive of the last service that he could render to her

mother, and he have not reliance enough on her father to let she go out

without any guardian or friend.



recent letter from Mr. Ponsonby and from Oliver Dynevor reiterate

request for an intelligent man conversant with mining operation, and

Oliver have indicate a person whom he remember at Chevleigh; but, as

his mother say, he forget that people grow old in the Eastern

hemisphere, and the application be a failure.  find that Mary

regard it as her charge, Fitzjocelyn volunteer to go to Illershall

to consult his friend Mr. Dobbs; and his first meeting with Mary be

spend in receive business-like instruction as to the person for whom

he should inquire.



there be some who feel dubious when he be see walk back from the

station with a young man who, in spite of broadcloth and growth, be

evidently Tom Madison.



'I could not help it, Mary,' say Louis, 'it be not my fault that

Dobbs would recommend he.'



Mr. Dobbs have look this way and that, and conclude with, 'well, Lord

Fitzjocelyn, I do not know who would answer your purpose well than

the young fellow you send here a year ago.'



it appear that Tom have strive assiduously both to learn his business

and to improve himself; and, have considerable ability, already

brighten and sharpen by Louis, his progress have be surprising.

he have no low taste, and be perfectly to be rely on for all

essential point; but Mr. Dobbs own that he should be relieve by

part with he, as he be not like by his fellow, and be think

by the foreman to give himself air.  quarrel and misunderstanding

have arise so often, that he himself have be oblige to exert an

influence on his behalf, which he fear might make he obnoxious to

the accusation of partiality.  he consider that the lad have worth,

substance, and promise far beyond his fellow; but his blunt, haughty

manner, impatience of rough joke, and rude avoidance of the

unrefined, make he the object of their dislike, so that it be

probable that he would thrive much well abroad and in authority; and

at his age, he be more likely to adapt himself to circumstance, and

learn a new language, than an old man, more use to routine.



the vision of the land for dig gold and silver seem about to be

realize, just as Tom have be growing learn enough to despise it.

enterprise and hope of fortune make he wild to go; and Mary after

read Dobbs's letter, and lay before Louis the various temptation

of Lima, find that he think England to the full as dangerous for his

protege.  she, therefore, send for the young man, and decide as

dispassionately as she could, upon take he.



the Ormersfield world be extremely indignant; Frampton and Gervas

prophesy that no good would come of such a choice, and marvel at

the Vicar, who give the lad lodge in his house, and spend the

evening in give he such mathematical instruction and teaching of

other kind, as he think most likely to be useful to he.



to his surprise, however, Tom be much more grave and sober-minded

under his promotion than could have be expect.  Louis, who have

undertake his outfit, be almost disappointed to find he so much out

of heart, and so little responsive to cheerful augury; and at last a

little hint at banter about the individual at the Terrace explain

his despondence.



it be all over.  Charlotte have hardly speak to he while he be

wait at no. 5, and Miss Faithfull's Martha have tell he there have

be nothing but walk and talk with Lady Conway's fine butler,

and that Charlotte would never have nothing more to say to he!  now!

just as he might have speak!  be it not enough to knock the heart out

of it all!  he never wish to go near no. 5 again.



Louis strongly advise he at least to know his fate, and declare that

for his part, he would never take any Mrs. Martha's word, rather than

that of the lady herself.  speak out, and, of course, Montrose's famous

motto come in, and be highly appreciated by Tom, though he still shake

his head ruefully, as he recollect what a lout he have be at his

last meeting with Charlotte, and how little he could compare with such

a fine gentleman as have be describe, 'and she always have a taste for

gentility.'



'well, Tom, I would not wish to see a well gentleman any day, than

you have stuff enough in you to make; and, if Charlotte be a girl worth

have, she'll value that more than french polish.  you're get

polished, too, Tom, and will more as you get well and sounder, and

that polish will be true and not french.'



Meantime Charlotte have be in twenty state of mind.  have Tom striven

at once to return to the former term, the Lady of Eschalott might have

treat it as mere natural homage, compare he with Delaford's

delicate flattery, and disclaim he.  she have be chilling and shy

at the first meeting, expect he to presume on his promotion, but

when he be go, come no more, except for necessary interview with

Miss Ponsonby, and then merely speak civilly, and go away directly,

her heart begin to fail she. neglect mortify she; she be first

affront, sure she do not care, and resolve to show that she do

not; but then the vexation become strong, she wonder if he have

hear of Delaford, be angry at her intercourse with the butler be

deem an offence, and finally arrive at a hearty longing for a return

to old time. vanity or affection, one or the other, demand Tom's

allegiance.



and Tom come at last.  he do not come by moonlight--he do not come at

all romantically; but as she be wash vegetable, he stand by the

scullery door, and make no elegant circumlocution.  would she be his

wife, some time or other? and he would try to be worthy of she.



Fitzjocelyn have judge she rightly!  sound true love have force enough

to dispel every illusion of sentimental flattery.  Charlotte burst into

a flood of tear, and, sob behind her apron, confess that she

never like nobody like Tom, but she be afraid he would think she have

be false to he, for she do like Mr. Delaford's talk, all about

poetry and serenade; but she never would heed he no more, not if he

go down on his knee to she.



Tom be a great deal more likely to perform that feat.



he stand his ground when Mrs. Beckett come in, and tell she all about

it, and the good old soul mingle her tear with Charlotte's, wish

they joy, and finish wash the green.  nevertheless Mrs. Frost

think the kitchen-clock be very slow.



their 'walk together' be recognise.  Martha be very angry with

Jane, and predict that the young vagabone would never be hear of

more; and that the only benefit would be, that it would settle the

girl's mind, and hinder she from encourage any more follower.  and

even Mrs. Frost have her doubt.  her prudent counsel interfere with

Tom's wish to carry out poor little Charlotte as his wife; and they have

to content themselves with a betrothal until they should have 'save

something,' exchange brooch, each with a memorial lock of hair.

during the remain week, the Lady of Eschalott neither eat nor sleep,

and though she do her work, her tear never seem to cease.  she

defend herself by aver that Miss Ponsonby's pillow be soak

every morning; but if Mary's heavy eyelid corroborate she, she

demeanour do not.  Mary be busy in dismantle the house and in

pack up; speak little, but always considerate and self-possess,

and resolute in avoid all excitement of feeling.  she would not go

to Ormersfield, as the Earl propose, even for one day, and a few book

connect with the happy lesson of last summer, be give into Mrs.

Frost's keeping, with the steady, calm word, 'I have well not take

they.'  she make no outpouring even to that universal, love

confidante, Aunt Catharine; and the final parting do not break down

her self-restraint, though, as the last bend of her head be give, the

last chimney of Northwold disappear, her sensation of heartache

almost amount to sicken.



she be go to Bryanston Square.  her aunt have be as kind as

possible, and have even offer to come to Northwold to fetch her home;

but Mary have be too considerate to allow she to think of so dreadful

a journey, and have in fact, be glad to be leave only to her own Aunt

Catharine.  the last letter which have pass between Mrs. Ponsonby and

Annt Melicent have be such as two sincere christian woman could not

fail to write in such circumstance as must soften down all asperity,

alleviate prejudice and variance, and be a prelude to that perfect

unity when all misunderstanding shall end for ever; and thus Mary have

the comfort of know that the two whom she love so fondly, have

part with all mutual affection and cordial honour.



she really love the little prim stiff figure who stand on the stair

to welcome she.  the house have be her home for ten of the most

home-form year of her life, and feel familiar and kindly; it be

very quiet, and it be an unspeakable comfort to be with one who talk

freely of her father with blind partiality and love, and do not

oppress she with imply compassion for her return to he.



yet Mary could not help now and then be sensible that good Aunt

Melicent be not the fountain of wisdom which she use to esteem she.

now and then a dictum would sound narrow and questionable, objection

to book seem mistaken, judgment of people hard, and without

sufficient foundation; and when Mary try to argue, she find herself

decidedly set down, with as much confident superiority as if she have

be still sixteen year old.  six year spend in go to the other

side of the world, and in see so many variety of people, do not

seem to Aunt Melicent to have confer half so much experience as

sleep every night in Bryanston Square, daily read the Morning

Post, and hold intercourse with a London world of a dozen old

lady, three curate, and a doctor.



the bad of it be, that a hurt and angry tenderness be always

excited in Mary's mind by the manner of any reference to Northwold or

Ormersfield.  it seem to be fix, beyond a doubt, that everything

there must have be wrong and fashionable; and even poor dear Aunt

Kitty be only speak of with a charitable hope that affliction have

teach she to see the error of her day of worldly display.



it be allow that there be nothing objectionable in Clara Frost, who

be subdue by the sight of Mary's deep mourning, and in silent formal

company could be grave and formal too.  but there be a severe shock in

a call from Lady Conway and Isabel; and on their departure Mary be

cross-examined, in the hope that they have be outrageously gay at

Northwold, and for want of any such deposition, be regale with

history of poor Lady Fitzjocelyn's vanity, which have not lose by

their transmission through twenty-two year and twice as many mouth.



still more unpleasant be the result of a visit from the Earl and his

son to appoint the day of start for Liverpool.  Louis be in no mood

to startle any one; he be very sad at heart, and only anxious to be

inoffensive; but his air be quite enough to give umbrage, and cause

the instant remark, 'I never see such a puppy!'



nothing but such angry incoherency occur to Mary, that she forcibly

hold her peace, but could not prevent a burn crimson from spread

over her face.  she go and stand at the window, glad that Miss

Ponsonby have just take up the newspaper, which she daily read from end

to end, and then post for Lima.



by and by come a little dry cough, as she go through the

presentation at the levee, and read out 'Viscount Fitzjocelyn, by the

Earl of Ormersfield.'



Mary's mind make an excursion to the dear Yeomanry suit, till her aunt,

having far hunt they out among the Earls and Viscounts sum up

at the end, severely demand whether she have know of their intention.



'I know he be to be present.'



'quite the young man of fashion.  no doubt begin that course, as if

the estate be not sufficiently impoverished already.  I be not

surprised at the report that Lord Ormersfield be very anxious to

secure your fortune for his son.'



this be too much, and Mary exclaim, 'he never believe in any

fortune that depend on speculation.'



'oh, so there be nothing in it!' say Miss Ponsonby, who would have

like the satisfaction of know that her niece have refuse to be a

Countess, and, while Mary be debate whether her silence be

untruthful, her bent head and glow cheek betray she.  'ah! my

dear, I will ask no question; I see you have be annoy.  it always

happen when a girl with expectation go among needy nobility.'



'you would not say that, if you know the circumstance,' say Mary,

look down.



'I willn't distress you, my dear; I know you be too wise a girl to be

dazzle with worldly splendour, and that be enough for I.'



the poor old furniture at Ormersfield!



Mary hold her tongue, though reproach herself for cruel injustice to

all that be dear to she, but how deny her refusal, or explain the

motive.



not that her aunt want any explanation, except her own excellent

training, which have save her niece from partake her mother's

infatuation for great people.  she have a grand secret to pour into the

bosom of her intimate in some tete-a-tete tea-party by-and-by, and

poor Mary little guess at the glorification of her prudence which be

flow from her aunt's well-mend pen, in a long letter to Mr.

Ponsonby.  she think it right that he should be inform, she say,

that their dear Mary have conduct herself accord to their fond

wish; that the relation, among whom she have unfortunately be

throw, have form design on her fortune, such as they have every

reason to expect; that every solicitation have be employ, but that

Mary have withstand all that would have be most alluring to girl

bring up to esteem mere worldly advantage.  it be extremely

gratifying, the more so as the young gentleman in question might be

consider as strikingly handsome to the mere outward eye, which do

not detect the stamp of frivolity, and the effect of an early

introduction to the world of fashion and dissipation.  she trust that

their dear young heiress would have a well fate, owe to her own

wisdom, than be choose to support the extravagance of a young title

adventurer.



having work herself up into enthusiastic admiration of her own work,

Miss Ponsonby be kind than ever to her niece, and pity she for

be harass with Lord Fitzjocelyn's company to Liverpool.



Mary be not as much relieved as she have expect, when her hand have

be release from his pressure, and she have see the last glimpse of

his return boat.



henceforth her imagination be to picture he only with Isabel Conway.



and so Viscount Fitzjocelyn be leave with more liberty than he know

what to do with.  he be disinclined to begin the pursuit of Miss

Conway, as if this would involve a want of delicacy and feeling, and he

have no other object.  the world be before he, but when he drive to

the Liverpool Station, he be unwilling to exert his mind to decide for

what ticket to ask.



the bias be give by the recollection of a message from his father to

Frampton.  it would be less trouble to go home than to write, and,

besides, Aunt Catharine be alone.  she be his unfailing friend, and

it would be a great treat to have she to himself.



Home then he go, where he spend the long summer day in listless,

desultory, busy idleness, often alone, dream over last year, often

pass his evening with his aunt, or bring she to see his design;

dine out whenever he be invite, and return odd uncertain answer

when Mr. Calcott ask he what he be go to do.



Mr. Holdswolth be go to leave James in charge of his parish, and

take a walking tour in Cornwall, and perversely enough, Louis's fancy

fix on join he; and be much disappointed when Mrs. Frost prove,

beyond dispute, that an ankle, which a little over haste or fatigue

always render lame, would be an unfair drag upon a companion, and

that if he go at all, it must not be on his own foot.



at last, Lady Conway make a descent upon Northwold.  Paris have become

so tranquil that she have no hesitation in take she two eld

daughter to make their promise visit; and such appeal be make to

Louis to join they, that it become more troublesome to refuse than to

comply, and, at the short notice, he prepare to set out as the

escort of the Conway family.



'now for it!' he think.  'if she be the woman, I cannot fail to find

it out, between the inn and the sight!'



short as the notice be, the Lady of Eschalott could have wish it

short.  no soon have Mr. Delaford set foot in the House Beautiful,

than Mrs. Martha announce to he that he would be happy to hear that

Charlotte Arnold be go to be married to a very respectable young

man, whom she have know all his life, and to whom Mr. Dynevor and Miss

Ponsonby have give an appointment to the gold mine, out of respect for

Lord Fitzjocelyn.  Mr. Delaford gravely declare himself glad to hear

it.



but Delaford's purpose in life be, that no maiden should fail of be

smite with his charm; and he take Charlotte's defection seriously to

heart.  his first free moment be devoted to a call in Number 5, but

Charlotte be scour in the upper region, and Mrs. Beckett only

treat he to another edition of the gold mine, in which, if they

become silver, the power and grandeur of Mr. Oliver be mightily

magnify.  Mr. Delaford thrum his most doleful tune on the guitar

that evening, but though the June sun be sink beauteously,

Charlotte never put her head out.  however, the third time, he find

she, and then she be coy and blushing, reserved and distant, and so

much pretty, and more genuine than all his former conquest, that

something beyond vanity become interested.



he court the muse, and walk in with a pathetic copy of verse,

which, some day or other, might serve to figure in the county

newspaper, complain of desertion and cruelty.



Charlotte sit at the little round table; Jane be upstairs, and without

her guardian, she feel that she must guard herself.  he lay the verse

down before she with a most piteous countenance.



'please don't, Mr. Delaford,' she say; 'I ask Mrs. Beckett to tell

you--'



'she have transfix my breast,' be the commencement, and out pour a

speech worthy of any hero of Charlotte's imagination, but it be not

half so pleasant to hear as to dream of, and the utmost she could say

be a reiteration of she 'please don't!'



at last she muster courage to say, 'I cann't listen, sir.  I never

ought to have do it.  I be promise now, and I cann't.'



a melodramatic burst of indignation frighten she nearly out of her

sense, and happily bring Jane down.  he be go the next day, but

he return once more to the charge, very dolorous and ill-used; but

Charlotte have collect herself and take counsel by that time. 'I

never promise you anything, sir,' she say.  'I never know you mean

nothing.'



'ah! Miss Arnold, you cannot interpret the heart!' and he put his hand

upon it.



'nor I don't believe you mean it, neither!' continue Charlotte, with

spirit.  'they tell I 'tis the way you go on with all young woman as

have the ill-luck to believe you, and that 'tis all along of your

hard-heartedness that poor Miss Marianne look so dwine.'



'when lady will throw themselves at a gentleman's head, what can a

poor man do?  courtesy to the sex be my motto; but never, never do I

love as I love you!' say Delaford--'never have I speak as I do now!

my heart and hand be your, fairest Charlotte!'



'for shame, Mr. Delaford; don't you know I be promise?'



he go on, disregarding--'My family be above my present situation,

confidential though it be; but I would at once quit my present post--I

would open an extensive establishment for refreshment at some

fashionable watering-place.  my connexion could not fail to make it

succeed.  you should merely superintend--have a large establishment

under you--and enjoy the society and amusement for which you be

eminently fit.  we would have a library of romance and

poetry--attend the theatre weekly--and,'--(finishing as if to clench

the whole) 'Charlotte, do you know what my property consist of?  I

have four hundred pound and expectation!'



if Charlotte have not be guard, what would have be the effect of

the library of poetry and romance?



but her own poetry, romance, and honest heart, all go the same way,

and she cry out--'I don't care what you have, not I.  I've promise,

and I'll be true--get along with you!'



the village girl, hard press, be break out.



'you bid I go.  Cruel girl! your command shall be obey.  I go

abroad!  you know the disturbed state of the Continent.--In some

conflict for liberty, where the desperate poniard be uplifted--there--'



'oh! don't talk so dreadful.  Pray--'



'do you bid I pause?  at a word from you.  you be the arbitress of my

destiny.'



'no; I've nothing to do--do go!  only promise you'll not do nothing

dangerous--'



'reject I, and life be intolerable.  where the madden crowd rise

upon their tyrant, there in thickest of the fray--'



'you'll be the first to take to your heel, I'll be bind!  ben't you

ashamed of yourself, to be rant and frightening a poor girl that

fashion?' cry the friendly dragon Martha, descend on they.



'do you apply that language to I, ma'am?'



'that I do! and richly you deserve it, too, sir!  see if your missus

don't hear of your trick, if I find you at this again.'



the 'sex' fairly scold the courteous Delaford off the field; and

though she turn she wrath on Charlotte for having encourage he, and

wonder what the poor young man over the sea would think of it, her

interposition have never be so welcome.  Charlotte cry herself into

tranquillity, and be only far disturb by a dismal epistle,

convey by the shoe-boy on the morning of departure, breathe the

language of despair, and yet announce that she have well think twice

of the four hundred pound and expectation, for that it be her

destiny that she and no other should be the bride of Delaford.



'if I could only know he would do nothing rash!' sigh Charlotte.



Jane comfort she; Martha hold that he be the last man in the world

who would do anything rash.  Miss Conway's Marianne, who be leave

behind, treat Charlotte as something ignominious, but look so ill,

miserable, and pine, that Miss Mercy be persuade she be go into

a decline, and treat she with great kindness than she have meet since

she be a child.



in the meantime, Fitzjocelyn have begin with a fit of bashfulness. the

knowledge that this be the crisis, and that all his friend look to

the result of the expedition, make he feel as if he be commit

himself whenever he hand Isabel in or out of a carriage, and find no

comfort except in Virginia's chattering.



this wear off quickly; the new scene take effect on his impressible

mind, and the actual sight and sound drive out all the rest.  his

high spirit come back, he freely hazard Mrs. Frost's old

boarding-school French, and laugh at the infinite blunder for which

Virginia take he to task, be excessively amuse at Delaford's

numerous adventure, and enjoy everything to the utmost.  to Miss

Conway he turn naturally as the person well able to enter into the

countless association of every scene; and Isabel, become aware of

his amount of knowledge, and tone of deep thought, perceive that she

have do Mr. Frost Dynevor injustice in believe his friendship blind

or unmerite.



they be on most comfortable term.  they have walk all over

Versailles together, and talk under their breath of the murder

Queen; they have be through the Louvre, and Isabel, know it well of

old, find all make vivid and new by his enthusiastic delight; they have

marvel together at the poor wither 'popular tree,' whose name have

confer on they the fatal distinction of tree of liberty; they have

view, like earnest people, the scene of republican Paris, and

discuss they with the same principle, but with sufficient difference

in detail for amicable argument.  they have think much of thing and

people, and not at all of each other.



only Isabel think she would make the Viscount into a Vidame, both as

more quaint and less personal, and involve slight erasure, and Louis

be surprised to find what be the true current of his thought.  with

Isabel propitious, without compunction in address she, with all the

novelty and amusement before he, he find himself always recur to

Mary, try all thing by Mary's judgment, wonder whether he should

need approval of his theory in Mary's eye, crave Mary's

sympathy, follow she on her voyage, and imagine her arrival.

be it the perverse spirit of longing after the most unattainable?



he demand of himself whether it be a fatal sign that he regret

the loss of Isabel, when she go to spend a few day with her old

governess.  Miss Longman have leave the Conway family in order to take

care of the motherless child of a good-for-nothing brother, who have

run too deeply into debt to be able to return to England.  he be now

dead, but she be teach English, and obtain advantage of

education for her niece, which detain she at Paris; and as she have a

bed to offer her former pupil, Isabel set her heart on spend she

last three day in the unrestrained intercourse afford by a visit to

she.  Louis find that though their party have lose the most agreeable

member, yet it be not the loss of the sun; and that he be quite as

ready to tease his aunt and make Virginia laugh, as if Isabel have be

look on with a smile of wonder and commiseration for their nonsense.









CHAPTER XX.



the FANTASTIC VISCOUNT.



  search for a jewel that too casually

  Hath leave mine arm: it be thy master's.  Shrew I

  if I would lose it for a revenue

  of any king's in Europe!--Cymbeline.





'my dear Fitzjocelyn, what be to be do?  have you hear?  Delaford

say these horrid creature be rise!  there be an attack on the

Hotel de Ville last night!  a thousand people kill, at least!--The

National Guard call out!'



'one of the lion of Paris, my dear aunt; Virginia be see it in

style.'



'see it!  we must go at once.  they will raise those horrid

barricades;--we shall be close in.  and Isabel go to that governess!

I wish I have never consent!  how could I come here at all?

Fitzjocelyn, what be to be do?'



'drive round that way, if you be bent on go,' say Louia, coolly.

'meantime, Virginia, my dear, I will thank you for some coffee.'



'how can you talk of such thing?' cry his aunt.  'it be all those

savage wretch, mad because the national workshop be close.

Delaford declare they will massacre all the English.'



'poor wretch, I believe they be starve.  I think you be make

yourself ill--the most pressing danger.  Come, Virginia, persuade your

mamma to sit down to breakfast, while I go to reconnoitre. where be

the passport?'



Virginia have lose all terror in excitement, but neither she nor her

mother could bear to let he go out, to return they know not when. the

carriage have already be order, but Lady Conway be exceedingly

frightened at the notion of drive anywhere but direct to the railway

station; she be sure that they should encounter something frightful if

they go along the Boulevards.



'could not Delaford go to fetch Isabel?' suggest Virginia, 'he might

take a carriage belong to the hotel.'



Delaford be summon, and desire to go to fetch Miss Conway, but

though he say, 'yes, my Lady,' he look yellow and white, and

loitered to suggest whether the young lady would not be alarm.



'I will go with you,' say Louis.  'order the carriage, and I shall be

ready.'



Lady Conway, to whom his presence seem protection, be almost

remonstrate, but he say, 'Delaford be in no state to be of use. he

would take bonjour for a challenge.  let I go with he, or he will

take care the young lady be alarmed.  when we be all together, we can

do as may seem good, and I shall be able well to judge whether we be

to fight or fly.'



outside the door he find Delaford, who beg to suggest to his

lordship that my Lady would be alarmed if she be leave without either

of they, he could hardly answer it to himself that she should remain

without any male protector.



'oh yes, pray remain to defend she,' say Louis, much amuse, and

hasten down-stair he order the carriage to drive to Rue ----, off

the Boulevard St. Martin.



he think there be sign bode tempest.  shop be closed, and man

in blouse be begin to assemble in knot--here and there the

red-cap loom ominously in the far end of narrow alley, and in the

wide street the only passenger either seem in haste like himself,

or else be National Guards hurry to their alarm-post.



he come safely to Miss Longman's apartment, where he find all on the

alert--the governess and her niece recount their experience of

February, which convince they that there be more danger in return

than in remain.  Miss Longman be urgent to keep Isabel and Lord

Fitzjocelyn for at least a few hour, which she declare would probably

be the duration of any emeute, but they know this would cause dreadful

anxiety, and when Fitzjocelyn propose return alone, Isabel insist

on accompany he, declare that she have no fear, and that her

mother would be miserable if her absence should detain they.  perhaps

she be somewhat deceive by the cool, almost ludicrous, light in which

he place the revolution, as a sort of periodical spasm, and Miss

Longman's prediction that the railway would be close, only quicken

her preparation.



after receive many entreaty to return in case of alarm, they took

leave, Louis seat himself beside the driver, as well to keep a

look-out, as to free Miss Conway from fear of a tete-a-tete.  except

for such a charge of lady, he would have be delighted at the

excitement of an emeute; but he be far from guess how serious a

turn affair be take.



the dark blue group be thicken into crowd; musket and pike

be here and there see, and once he recognise the sinister red flag.

a few distant shot be hear, and the driver would gladly have

hasten his speed, but swarm of haggard-look man begin to impede

their progress, and strain of 'Mourir pour la patrie' now and then

reach their ear.



close to the Porte St. Denis they be bring to a full stop by a

dense throng, above whose head be see a line of carriage, the red

flag plant on the top.  many hand be seize the horse' head,

and Louis leapt down, but not before the door have be open, and

voice be exclaim, 'Descendez citoyenne; au nom de la nation,

descendez.'  the mob be not uncivil, they make way for Louis, and

bade he reassure she that no harm be intend, but the carriage be

require for the service of the nation.



Isabel have retreat as far as she could from their hand, but she

show no sign of quailing; her eye be bright, her colour high, and

the hand be firm which she give to Louis as she step out. there be

a murmur of admiration, and more than one bow and mutter apology

about necessity and the nation, as the crowd behold the maiden in all

her innate nobleness and dignity.



'which way?' ask Louis, find that the crowd be willing to let

they choose their course.



'home,' say Isabel, decidedly, 'there be no use in turn back.'



they press on past the barricade for which their carriage have be

require, a structure of confiscate vehicle, the interstice fill

up with earth and pave stone, which man and boy be busily tear

up from the trottoir, and other carry to their destination.  they

be a gaunt, hungry, wolfish-look race, and the first word that

Isabel speak be word of pity, when they have pass they, and

continue their course along the Boulevards, here in desolate

tranquillity.  'poor creature, they look as if misery make they

furious! and yet how civil they be.'



'be you much alarmed?  I wish I could have come to you soon.'



'thank you; I know that you be at hand, and their address be not

very terrific, poor thing.  I do not imagine there be any real

danger.'



'I wish I know whether we be within or without the barricade.  if

within, we shall have to cross another.  we be actually become

historical!'



he break off, amazed by Isabel's change of countenance, as she put she

hand to the arm he hold, hastily withdraw it, and exclaim, 'my

bracelet! oh, my bracelet!' turn round to seek it on the pavement.



'the ivory clasp?' ask Louis, perceive its absence.



'oh yes!' she cry, in much distress, 'I would not have lose it for

all the world.'



'you may have leave it at Miss Longman's.'



'no, no, I be never without it!'



she turn, and make a few retrograde step, search on the ground,

as if conscious only of her loss, shake off his hand when he touch

her arm to detain she.



a discovery break on, he.  well that he could bear it!



'Hark!' he say, 'there be cannon firing!  Miss Conway, you cannot go

back.  I will do my utmost to recover your clasp, but we must not stay

here.'



'I have forget.  I beg your pardon, I do not think!' say Isabel,

with a species of rebuke submission, as if impress by the calmness

that give authority to his manner; and she make no remark as he make

her resume his arm, and hurry she on past house with closed door

and window.



suddenly there be the sound of a volley of musketry far behind.

'Heaven help the poor wretch,' say Louis; and Isabel's grasp

tighten on his arm.



again, again--the drop sound of shot become continual.  and now it

be in front as well as in the rear; and the booming of cannon

resound from the heart of the city.  they be again on the outskirt

of a crowd.



'it be as I think,' say Louis, 'we be between both.  there be

nothing for it but to push on, and see whether we can cross the

barricade; be you afraid to encounter it!'



'no,' say Isabel.



'there be a convent not far off, I think.  we might find shelter for

you there.  yet they might break in.  it might not be easy to meet. I

believe you be safe with I.  will you trust in I?'



'I will not have you endanger yourself for I.  Dispose of I as you

will--in a convent, or anywhere.  your life be precious, your safety be

the first thing.'



'you be speak in irony.'



'I do not mean it: I beg your pardon.'  but she colour and falter.

'you must distinctly understand that this be only as Englishman to

Englishwoman.'



'as Englishman to Englishwoman,' repeat Louis, in her own formula.

'or rather,' he add, lower his voice, 'trust I, for the sake of

those who give the clasp.'



he be answer by her involuntary pressure of his arm, and finally, to

set she at ease, he say, hurriedly, 'if it go wrong with I, it

would be to Lima that I should ask you to send my love.'



there be no time for more.  they be again on the freshly-tear

ground, whence the pavement have be wrench.  the throng have

thicken behind they, and seem to be involve they in the vortex.

above their head Louis could see in front between the tall house, the

summit of another barricade complete, surmount with the red flag, and

guard by a fierce party of ruffians.



all at once, tremendous yell break out on all side.  the rattle of a

drum, now and then, might be distinguish, shout and shriek

resound, and there be a sharp fire of musketry from the barricade,

and from the adjoining window; there be a general rush to the front,

and Louis could only guard Isabel by press she into the recess of

the closed doorway of one of the house, and stand before she,

prevent himself from be sweep away only by exert all his

english strength against the lean, wild being who struggle past he,

howl and scream.  the defender spring upon the barricade, and

thrust back and hurl down the National Guards, whose head be now

and then see as they vainly endeavour to gain the summit.  this

desperate struggle last for a few minute, then cry of victory

break out, and there be sharp firing on both side, which, however,

soon cease; the red flag and the blouse remain still in

possession.  Isabel have stand perfectly silent and motionless through

the whole crisis, and though she cling to her protector's arm, it be

not with nervous disable terror, even in the frightful tumult of the

multitude.  there be some other strength with she!



'you be not hurt?' say Louis, as the pressure relax.



'oh no! thank God!  you be not?'



'be you ready?  we must make a rush before the next assault.'



a lane open in the throng to afford passage for the wounded. isabel

shrink back, but Louis draw she on hastily, till they have attain the

very foot of the barricade, where a space be keep clear, and there be

a cry 'au large, or we shall fire.'



'let we pass, citizen,' say Louis, hastily rehearse the french he

have be compose.  'you make not war on woman.  let I take this

young lady to her mother.'



grim look be level at they by the fierce black-bearded man, and

their muttering of belle make she cle the close to her guardian.



'let she pass, the poor child!' say more than one voice.



'Hein!--they be English, who take the bread out of our mouth.'



'if you be a political economist,' say Louis, gravely, fix his

eye on the shrewd-look, sallow speaker, I would prove to you your

mistake; but I have no time, and you be too good fellow to wish to

keep this lady here, a mark for the Garde Nationale.'



'he be right there,' say several of the council of chief, and a

poissarde, with brawny arm and a tall white cap, thrust forward,

cry out, 'let they go, the poor child.  what be they do here?

they look fit to be set up in the church for waxen image!'



'take care you do not break we,' exclaim Louis, whose fair cheek have

win this tribute; and his smile, and the readiness of his reply, win

his admission to the first of the step up the barricade.



'Halte la!' cry a large-limbed, formidable-look ruffian on the

summit, point his musket towards they; 'none pass here who do

not bring a stone to raise our barricade for the right of the Red

Republic, and cry, La liberte, l'egalite, et la, fraternite, let it fit

his perfidious tongue as it may.'



'there's my answer,' say Louis, raise his right arm, which be

dripping; with blood, 'you have make I mount the red flag!'



'ha!' cry the friendly fishwife, 'wound in the cause of the nation!

let he go.'



'he have not utter the cry!' shout the rest.



Louis look round with his cool, pensive smile.



'Liberty!' he say, 'what _we_ mean by liberty be freedom to go where

we will, and say what we will.  I wish you have it, my poor fellow.

Fraternity--it be not shoot our brother.  Egalite--I preach that

too, but in my own fashion, not your.  let I pass--si cela vou est

egal.'



his nonchalant intrepidity--a quality never lose on the French--raise

an acclamation of le brave Anglais.  no one stir a hand to hinder

their mounting to the banquette, and several hand be hold out to

assist in surmount the parapet of this extempore fortification.

Isabel bow her thank, and Louis speak they with gesture of

courtesy; and shout of high applause follow they as they speed along

the blood-stain street.



the troop be re-form after the repulse, and the point be to pass

before the attack could be renew, as well as not to be mistake for

the insurgent.



they be at once challenge, but a short explanation to the officer

be sufficient, and they be suffer to turn into the Rue Richelieu,

where they be only pursue by the distant sound of warfare.



'oh, Lord Fitzjocelyn!' cry Isabel, as he slacken his pace, and

gasp for breath.



'you be sure you be not hurt?' he say.



'oh no, no; but you--'



'it be very little,' he said--'a stray shot--only enough to work on

their feeling.  what good-natured rogue they be.  I will only twist

my handkerchief round to stop the blood.  thank you.'



Isabel try to help he, but she be too much afraid of hurt he to

draw the bandage tight.



they dash on, find people on the watch for tiding, and meeting

body of the National Guard, and when at length they reach the Place

Vendome, they find the whole establishment watch for they, and

Virginia fly to meet they on the stair, throw her arm round her

sister, while Lady Conway start forward with the agitated joy, and

almost anger, of one who feel injure by the fright they have make she

suffer.



'there you be!  what have keep you!  Delaford say they be

slaughter every one on the Boulevards!'



'I warn you of the consequence of take I,' say Louis, drop

into a chair.



'Mamma! he be all over blood!' scream Virginia.



Lady Conway recoil, with a slight shriek.



'it be a trifle,' say Louis;' Isabel be safe.  there be all cause for

thankfulness.  we could never have get through if she have not be

every inch a heroine.'



'oh, Lord Fitzjocelyn, if I could thank you!'



'don't,' say Louis, with so exactly his peculiar droll look and smile,

that all be reassure.



Isabel begin to recount their adventure.



'in the midst of those horrid wretch! and the firing!' cry Lady

Conway.  'my dear, how could you bear it?  I should have die of

fright!'



'there be no time for fear,' say Isabel, with a sort of scorn; 'I

should have be ashamed to be frighten when Lord Fitzjocelyn take it

so quietly.  I be only afraid lest you should repeat their horrid

war-cry.  I honour your refusal.'





'of course one would not in their sense, poor thing, and on

compulsion,' say Louis, his word come the slow from the

exhaustion which make he philosophize, rather than exert himself. 'in

a true sense, it be the war-cry of our life.'



'how can you talk so!' cry Lady Conway.  'Delaford say the ruffian

be certain to overpower the Guard.  we must go directly. very likely

this delay of yours may prevent we from get off at all.'



'I will find out whether the way be open,' say Louis, 'when I have-'



his word fail he, for as he rise, the handkerchief slip off, a

gush of blood come with it, and he be so faint that he could hardly

reach the sofa.



Lady Conway scream, Virginia ring the bell, Isabel give order that

a surgeon should be call.



'spirit from the vasty deep,' muttered Louis, in the midst of his

faintness, 'the surgeon have graver work on hand.'



'for heaven's sake, don't talk so!' cry his aunt, without dare to

look at he; 'I know your arm be break!'



'break bone be a very different matter, experto crede.  this will be

all right when I can stop the bleeding,' and steady himself with

difficulty, he reach the door, and slowly repair to his own room,

while the girl send Fanshawe and Delaford to his assistance.



Lady Conway, unable to bear the sight of blood, be in a state of

nervous sobbing, which Virginia's excited restlessness do not tend to

compose; and Isabel walk up and down the room, wish that she could

do anything, look reproachfully at her mother, and exalt to the

sky the courage, presence of mind, and fortitude of the wounded

knight.



presently, Delaford come down with a message from Lord Fitzjocelyn that

it be of no use to wait for he, for as the butler express it, 'the

haemorrhage be pertinacious,' and he beg that the lady would

depart without regard to he.  'in fact,' say Delaford, 'it be a

serious crisis, and there be no time to be lose; an english gentleman,

Captain Lonsdale, who have already offer his service, would take care

of his lordship, and my Lady have well secure herself and the young

lady.'



'Leave Fitzjocelyn!' cry Virginia.



'be it very dangerous, Delaford?' ask Lady Conway.



'I would not be responsible for the consequence of remain, my

Lady,' be the answer.  'shall I order the horse to be bring out?'



'I don't know.  be the street full of people?  oh! there be fire!

what shall I do?  Isabel, what do you say!'



Isabel be sit still and upright; she hardly raise her eyelid, as

she tranquilly say, 'nothing shall induce I to go till he be well.'



'Isabel! this be most extraordinary!  do you know what you be say?'



Isabel do not weaken her word by repetition, but sign to Delaford

to leave they, and he never venture to disregard Miss Conway. Virginia

hang about she, and declare that she be quite right; and Lady Conway,

in restless despair, predict that they would all be massacre, and

that her nephew would bleed to death, and appeal to every one on the

iniquity of all the doctor in Paris for not come near he.



Poor Louis himself be find it very forlorn to be leave to Fanshawe,

whose one idea be essence, and Delaford, who suggest nothing but

brandy.  some aunt and cousin he have, who would not have leave he to

their tender mercy.  he be grow confused and feeble, speculate

upon artery, and then start from a delusion of Mary's voice to

realize his condition, and try to waken his benumbed faculty.



at last, a decide step be hear, and he see stand by he a

vigorous, practical-look Englishman, and a black-eye, white-hood

little Soeur de Charite.  Captain Lonsdale, on hear the call for

surgical aid, have without a word, hurry out and secure the brisk

little Sister, who, with much gesticulation, take possession of the

arm, and pronounce it a mere trifle, which would have be nothing but

for the loss of blood, the ball having simply pass through the fleshy

part of the arm, avoid the bone.  Louis, pleased with this encounter

as a result of the adventure, be soon in condition to rise, though

with white cheek and tottering step, and to present to Lady Conway her

new defender.



the sight of a bold, lively english soldier be a grand consolation,

even though he entirely destroy all plan of escape by assure she

that there be a tremendous disturbance in the direction of the

Northern Railway, and that the only safe place for lady be just

where she be.  he make various expedition to procure intelligence,

and his tiding be cheerful enough to counteract the horrible story

that Delaford be constantly bring in, throughout that Saturday, the

dreadful 24th of June, 1848.



it be late before any one venture to go to bed; and Louis, weak and

weary, have waken many time from dreamy perception that some

wonderful discovery have be make, always fix it upon Mary, and then

find himself infinitely relieve by recollect that it do not

regard she.  he be in the full discomfort of the early stage of this

oft-repeat vision, when his door be push open, and Delaford's

tremble voice exclaim, 'my Lord, I beg your pardon, the massacre be

begin.'



'let I know when it be over,' say Louis, nearly in his sleep.



Delaford reiterate that the city be bombard, thousand of armed man

be march on the hotel, and my Lady ought to be inform.  a

distant cannonade, the trampling of many foot, and terrified voice on

the stair, finally rouse Louis, and hastily rise, he quit his

room, and find all the lady on the alert.  Lady Conway be hold

back Virginia from the window, and by turn summon Isabel to leave

it, and volubly entreat the master of the hotel to secure it with

feather-bed to defend they from the shot.



'oh, Fitzjocelyn!' she scream, 'tell he so--tell he to take we to

the cellar.  why will he not put the mattress against the window

before they fire?'



'I should prefer a different relative position for ourselves and the

bed,' say Louis, in his leisurely manner, as he advance to look out.

'these be the friend of order, my dear aunt; you should welcome your

protector.  their beard and their bayonet by gaslight be a grand

military spectacle.'



'they will fire!  there will be fight here!  they will force their

way in.  don't, Virginia--I desire you will not go near the window.'



'we be all right.  you be as safe as if you be in your own

drawing-room,' say Captain Lonsdale, walk in, and with his loud

voice drown the panic, that Louis's cool, gentle tone only

irritated.



Isabel look up and smile, as Louis stand by she, leave his aunt

and Virginia to the martial tone of their consoler.



'I could get no one to believe I when I say it be only the

soldier,' she observe, with some secret amusement.



'the feather-bed fortress be the lead idea,' say Louis. 'some

lady have a curious pseudo presence of mind.'



'generally, I believe,' say Isabel, 'a woman's presence of mind should

be to do as she be tell, and not to think for herself, unless she be

oblige.'



'think for themselves have be fatal to a good many,' say Louis,

relapse into meditation--'this poor Paris among the rest, I fancy.

what a dawn for a Sunday morning!  how cold the light look, and how

yellow the gas burn.  we may think of home, and be thankful!' and

kneeling with one knee on a chair, he leant against the shutter, gaze

out and muse aloud.



'thankful, indeed!' say Isabel, thoughtfully.



'yes--first it be think not at all, and then think not in the

right way.'



Isabel readily fall into the same strain.  'they turn from daylight

and follow the glare of their own gas,' say she.



so they begin a backward tracing of the calamity of France; and, as

Louis's word come with more than usual slowness and deliberation, they

have only come to Cardinal de Richelieu, when Captain Lonsdale

exclaim, 'I be sorry to interrupt you, Lord Fitzjocelyn, but may I

ask whether you can afford to lose any more blood?'



'thank you; yes, the bandage be loosen, but I be too comfortable to

move,' say Louis, sleepily, and he reel as he make the attempt, so

that he could not have reach his room without support.



the Captain have profit sufficiently by the Sister's example to be

able to staunch the blood, but not till the effusion have exhaust

Louis so much that all the next day it matter little to he that the

city be in a state of siege, and no one allow to go out or come in.

even a constant traveller like Captain Lonsdale, fertile in resource,

and undaunted in search of all that be to be see, be oblige to

submit, the more willingly that Fitzjocelyn need his care, and the

lady' terror be only keep at bay by his protection. he sit beside

the bed where lie Louis in a torpid state, greatly disinclined to be

rouse to attend when his aunt would hasten into the room, full of some

horrible rumour bring in by Delaford, and almost petulant because he

would not be alarm.  all he ask of the Tricolor or of the Drapeau

Rouge for the present be to let he alone, and he would drop into a

doze again, while the Captain be still argue away her terror.



More be true than he would allow she to credit and when the little

Soeur de Charite find a few minute for visit her patient's wound,

her bright face be pale with horror and her eye red with weeping.



'our good archbishop!' she sob, when she allow herself to speak,

and to give way to a burst of tear.  'ah, the martyr!  ah, the good

pastor!  the miserable--but no--my poor people, they know not what they

do!'



and as Louis, completely awakened, question she, she tell how the

good Archbishop Affre have begin that Sunday of strife and bloodshed by

offer his intercession at the altar for the unhappy people, and

then offer his own life.  'the good shepherd giveth his life for the

sheep,' be his word, as he go forth to stand between the hostile

party, and endeavour to check their fury against one another.  she

herself have see he, follow by a few priest, and precede by a

brave and faithful ouvrier, who insist on carry before he a green

branch, as an emblem of his peaceful mission.  she describe how, at

the sight of his violet robe, and the white cross on his breast, the

brave boy garde mobile come crowd round he, all black with

powder, beg for his blessing, some remind he that he have

confirm they, while other cry, 'your blessing on our musket, and

we shall be invincible,' while some of the woman ask he to carry the

bandage and lint which they wish to send to the wounded.



on he go, comfort the wounded, absolve the dying, and exhort

the living, and at more than one scene of conflict the combatant

pause, and yield to his persuasion; but at the barricade at the

Faubourg St. Antoine, while he be sign to the mob to give he a

moment to speak, a ball strike he, and follow by the weeping and

horror-strike insurgent, he be bear into the curate's house,

severely wound, while the populace lay down their weapon, to sign a

declaration that they know not who have fire the fatal shot.



'no, no, it be none of our people!' repeat the little nun.  'not one

of they, poor lose creature as too many be, would have commit the

act--so sacrilegious, so ungrateful!  ah! you must not believe they

wicked.  it be misery that drive they to rise.  hold!  I meet a young

man--alas! I know he well when he be a child--I say to he, 'ah! my

son, you be on the bad train.'  'Bread, mother--it be bread we must

have,' he answer.  'why, would you speak to one who have not eat for

twenty-four hour?'  I tell he he know the way to our kitchen.  'no,

mother,' he say, 'I shall not eat; I shall get myself kill.''



many a lamentable detail of this description do she narrate, as she

busy herself with the wound; and Louis listen, as he have listen

to nothing else that day, and nearly empty his travel purse for

the sufferer.  Isabel and Virginia waylay she on the stair to admire

and ask question, but she firmly, though politely, put they aside,

unable to waste any time away from her child--her poor wound!



on Monday forenoon tranquillity be restore, the rabble have be

crush, and the organize force be triumphant.  still the state of

siege continue, and no one be allow free egress or ingress, but the

Captain pronounce this all nonsense, and resolutely set out for a

walk, take the passport with he, and promise Lady Conway to

arrange for her departure.



by-and-by he come in, subdue and affect by the procession which he

have encounter--the die Archbishop bear home to his palace on a

litter, carry by workman and soldier, while the troop, who line

the street, pay he their military salute, and the people crowd to

their door and window--one voice of weeping and mourn run

along Paris--as the good prelate lie before their eye, pale,

suffering, peaceful, and ever and anon lift his feeble hand for a

last blessing to the flock for whom he have devote himself.



the Captain be so much impressed that, as he say, he could not get

over it, and stay for some time talk over the scene with the young

lady, before start up, as if wonder at his own emotion, he

declare that he must go and see what they would do next.



presently afterwards, Fitzjocelyn come down stair.  his aunt be

judiciously lie down in her own apartment to recruit her nerve after

her agitation, and have call Virginia to read to she, and Isabel be

write her journal, alone, in the sitting-room.  Lady Conway would

have be gratify at her eager reception of he, but, as he seem

very languid, and indispose for conversation, she continue she

occupation, while he rest in an arm-chair.



presently he say, 'be it possible that you could have leave that

bracelet at Miss Longman's?'



'pray do not think about it,' exclaim Isabel; 'I be ashamed of my

childishness!  perhaps, but for that delay, you would not have be

hurt,' and her eye fill with tear, as her finger encircle the

place where the bracelet should have be.



'perhaps, but for that delay, we might both have be shoot,' say

Louis.  'no, indeed; I could not wonder at your prize it so much.'



'I little think that would be the end of it,' say Isabel.  'I be

glad you know its history, so that I may have some excuse;' and she

try to smile, but she blush deeply as she dry her eye.



'Excuse? more than excuse!' say Louis, remember his fear that it

would be throw away upon she.  'I know--'



'he have tell you!' cry Isabel, start with bashful eagerness.



'he have tell I what I understand now,' say Louis, come near in a

glow of grateful delight.  'oh, I be so glad you appreciate he. thank

you.'



'you be infer too much,' say Isabel, turn away in confusion.



'don't you mean it!' exclaim Louis.  'I thought--'



'we must not mistake each other,' say Isabel, recover she

self-possession.  'nothing amount to what you mean ever pass,

except a few word the last evening, and I may have dwell on they more

than I ought,' falter she, with avert head.



'not more than he have do, I feel certain,' say Louis; 'I see it all!

dear old Jem!  there's no such fellow in existence.'  but here

perceive that he be go too far, he add, almost timidly, 'I beg

your pardon.'



'you have no occasion,' she say, smile in the midst of her blush.

'I fear I have say what I ought not.  I little expect such kind

sympathy.'



she hastily leave he, and Lady Conway soon after find he so full of

bright, half-veil satisfaction, that she hold herself in readiness

for a confession from one or both every minute, and, now that the panic

be over, give great credit to the Red Republicans for having serve

she so effectually, and forgave the young people for having be so

provoke in their coolness in the time of danger, since it prove how

well they be suit to each other.  she greatly enjoy the

universally-imply conviction with regard to the handsome young pair.

nor do they struggle against it; neither of they make any secret of

their admiration for the conduct of the other, and the scrupulous

appellation of Miss Conway and Lord Fitzjocelyn be discard for

more cousinly title.



the young hero fall somewhat in his aunt's favour when he be miss

at the traveller's early breakfast, although Delaford report he much

well and go out.  'what if he should be late for the train?--what

if he should be take up by the police?'  Virginia scold her sister

for not be equally restless, and have almost hunt the Captain into

go in search of he; when at last, ten minute before the moment of

departure, in he come, white, lame, and breathless, but his eye

dance with glee, and his lip archly grave, as he drop something

into Isabel's lap.



'her bracelet!' exclaim Virginia, as Isabel look up with swimming

eye, unable to speak.  'where do you find it?'



'in the carriage, in the heart of the barricade at the Porte St. Denis.'



'it be too much!' cry Isabel, recover her utterance, and rise

with her hand lock together in her emotion.  'you make I repent my

having lament for it!'



'I have an old respect for Clara's clasp.'



'I never see a pretty attention,' say his aunt.



'it be only a pity that you cannot fasten it on for she.'



'that could only be do by the right hand,' mutter Louia, under his

breath, enjoy her blush.



'you have not tell we how you get it!' say Virginia.



'it strike I that there be a chance, and I have promise to lose none.

I find the soldier in the act of pull down the barricade. what an

astonishing construction it be!  I speak to the officer, who be very

civil, and cause I to depose that I have hire the carriage, and

belong to the young lady.  I believe my sling have a great effect; for

they set up a shout of acclamation when the bracelet appear, lie on

the cushion as quietly as if it be in its own drawer.'



'the value will be great than ever _now_, Isabel,' say Lady Conway.

'you will never lose it again!'



Isabel do not gainsay she.



the Captain shrug his shoulder, and look sagacious at his

patient's preparation for the journey before he.



Louis gravely look into his face as he take leave of he, and say,

'you be wrong.'



the Captain raise his eyebrow incredulously.  as they leave the city,

the bell of all the church be toll for the martyr archbishop.

and not for he alone be there mourning and lamentation through the

city: death and agony be everywhere; in some of the street, each

house be a hospital, and many a groan and cry of mortal pain be

utter through that fair summer-day.  Louis, in a low voice, remind

Isabel that, on this same day, the english primate be consecrate the

abbey newly restore for a missionary college; and his eye glisten

as he dwelt with thanksgive upon the contrast, and think of the

'peace within our wall, and plenteousness within our palace.'



he lie back in his corner of the carriage, too much tired to talk;

though, by-and-by, he begin to smile over his own musing, or to make

some lazily ludicrous remark to amuse Virginia.   his aunt caress she

wound hero, and promote his intercourse with Isabel, to his

exquisite amusement, in his passive, debonnaire condition, especially

as Isabel be perfectly insensible to all these manuoevre.



there she sit, gaze out of window, muse first on the meeting with

the live Sir Roland, secondly on the amend to be make in the 'chapel

in the valley.'  the Cloten of the piece must not even be a Vidame

nothing distantly connect with a v; even though this prototype be

comport himself much more like the nonchalant, fantastic Viscount,

than like she resolute, high-minded Knight at the Porte St. Denis.









CHAPTER XXI.



the HERO of the barricade.



  the page slay the boar,

  the peer have the gloire.

               Quentin Durward.





great uneasiness be excite at Dynevor Terrace by the tiding of the

insurrection at Paris.  after extract all possible alarm from her

third-hand newspaper, Mrs. Frost put on her bonnet to set off on a

quest for a sight of the last day's Times.  James have offer to go,

but she be too restless to remain at home; and when he have

demonstrate that the rumour must be exaggerated, and that there be no

need for alarm, he let she depart, and as soon as she be out of sight,

catch up the paper to recur to the terrible report of the first day's

warfare.  he pace about the little parlour, revile himself for not

having join the party, to infuse a little common sense; Fitzjocelyn,

no more fit to take care of himself than a baby, probably run into

the fray from mere rash indifference!  Isabel expose to every peril

and terror!  why have he refuse to join they? the answer be madden.

he hate himself, as he find his love for his cousin melt under the

influence of jealousy, and of indignation that his own vehement passion

must be sacrifice to the tardy, uncertain love which seem almost an

insult to such charm.



'what needs dwell on it?' he mutter; 'doubtless they be engage

by this time!  I shall surely do something desperate if they come here,

under my very eye.  would that I could go to the Antipodes, ere I

forfeit Louis's love!  but my grandmother, Clara!  be ever man so

miserably circumstance?'



a hand be on the door; and he strove to compose his face lest he

should shock his grandmother.



it be not Mrs. Frost.



'Louis! for Heaven's sake, where be they!'



'in the House Beautiful.'



James breathed--'And you! what make you so pale?  what have you do

to your arm?



'a little affair of the barricade.  I have be water the French

Republic with my blood.'



'rush into the thickest of the row, of course.'



'only escort Miss Conway through an assault of the Garde Nationale

say Louis, in a tone as if he have be say 'walk up the High

Street.'  how could he help teasing, when he could make such amend?



James begin to pace up and down again, mutter something about

madness and frenzy.



'it be not voluntary,' say Louis.  'when the carriage be confiscate

for the service of the nation, what could we do?--I can tell you, Jem,'

he add, fervently, 'what a gallant be she be! it be the glorious

perfection of gentle, lofty feminine courage, walk through the

rage multitude--through shot, through dreadful sight, like Una

through the forest, in Christian maidenly fearlessness.'



James have fling himself into a chair, hide his face, and steady

his whole person, by rest his elbow on his knee and his brow on his

hand, as he put a strong force on himself that he might hear Louis out

without betray himself.  Louis pause in ardent contemplation of the

image he have call up, and poor James gruffly whisper, 'go on: you

be happy.'



'very happy, in know what cause I have to rejoice for you.'



James give a great start, and tremble visibly.



'I do not tell you,' pursue Louis, 'that the single moment when she

lose her firmness, be when she think she have lose a certain ivory

clasp.'



James could endure no more: 'Louis,' he say, 'you must try I no

long.  what do you mean?'



Louis affectionately put his hand on his shoulder: 'I mean, dear Jem,

that I understand it now; and it be a noble heart that you have win,

and that can value you as you deserve.'



James wring his hand, and look bewildered, inquire, and happy; but

his quivering lip could form no word.



'it be a time to reveal the depth of the heart,' say Louis.  'a few

word and the loss of the bracelet betray much: and afterwards, as

far as a lady could, she confess that something which pass between

you the last evening--'



'Louis!' cry James, 'I could not help it!  I have be strive

against it all along; but if you could imagine how I be try!  you

never would come to plead your own cause, and I think to work for

you, but my word be too near the surface.  I cut myself short.  I

have bitterly reproach myself ever since, but I do not know the harm

I have do you.  can you forgive I?  can you--no, it be vain to ask;

you never can be happy.'



'my dear Jem, you go on at such a pace, there be no answer you.

there be no forgiveness in the case.  further acquaintance have already

convince I that she be lovely and perfect, but that 'she be na mine

ain lassie.'  yes, she catch my imagination; and you and my father

would have it that I be in love, and I suppose you know well: but

when I be let alone to a rational consideration, I find that to I

she be rather the embody Isabel of romance, a beauteous vision, than

the--the--in short, that there be another who have all that I be want

in.  no, no, dear Jem; it be you who make the generous sacrifice.

have no scruple about I; I be content with the part of Una's Lion,

only thankful that Sans-Loy and Sans-Foy have not quite demolish he

before he have see she restore to the Red Cross Knight.'



it be too much for James; he hide his face in his hand, and burst into

tear.  such joy dawn on he, without having either offend or

injure his cousin, produce a revulsion of feeling which he could not

control, and hear the street-door open, he run out of the room,

just before his grandmother came hurry in, on the wing of the

intelligence hear below.



'yes!  I know my own boy would come to I!' she cry.  'even Miss

Conway have not begin to keep he from I yet.'



'nor ever will, Aunt Kitty.  there be obstacle in the way.  you must

be granny, and mother, and sister and wife, and all my womankind, a

little long, if you please.'  and he sit down fondly at her foot, on

a footstool which have be his childish perch.



'not distressed, you insensible boy?'



'very happy about Isabel,' say he, turn to look at she with eye

dance with merry mystification.



'a foolish girl not to like my Louis!  I think well of she; but I

suppose my Lady have teach she to aim high!'



'so she do,' say Louis, earnestly.



'ungrateful girl!  why, Charlotte tell I you lead she straight over

the barricade, with cannon fire on you all the time!'



'but not Cupid.'



'then, it be true! and you have really hurt yourself!  and so pale! my

poor boy--what be it?  I must nurse you.'



'I have so little blood leave, that a gnat of tolerable appetite could

have make an end of I on Sunday, without more ado.  but, instead of

that, I have a good little Sister of Charity; and ben't that alone

worth get a bullet through one's arm?'



Aunt Catharine be shudder thankfully through the narration, when

James come down, his brow uncloude, but his manner still agitate, as

if a burthen have be take away, and he hardly know how to realize his

freedom from the weight.



Mrs. Frost could not part with her boy, and Jane Beckett evidently have

a spite against 'they french bandage;' so that Louis only talk of

go home enough to get himself flatter and coax into remain at

no. 5, as their patient.



the two young man go in the afternoon to inquire after the Conway

party, when they find that her ladyship be lie down, but Isabel,

who have be summon from a wholesale conflagration of all the MS.

relate to the fantastic Viscount, bring down Miss King, apparently

to converse for she; for she do little except blush, and seem unable

to look at either of the friend.



as they take leave, Louisa come into the room with a message that mamma

hope to see Mr. Frost Dynevor to-morrow, and trust that he have make

no engagement for the holiday.



James murmur something inaudible, and run down stair, snarl at

Louis as he turn to the Miss Faithfulls' door, and tell he he

want to obtain a little more petting and commiseration.



'I could not waste such an opportunity of look interesting!' say

Louis, laughing, as he tap at the door.



Delaford marshal out the poor tutor with a sense of triumph.  'his

hope, at least, be destroy!' think the butler; and he proceed

to regale Marianne with the romance of the Barricades,--how he have

himself offer to be Miss Conway's escort, but Lord Fitzjocelyn have

declare that not a live soul but himself should be the young lady's

champion; and, see the young nobleman so bent on it, Mr. Delaford

know that the force of true affection be not to be stay, no more

than the current of the limpid stream, and have yield the point; and,

though, perhaps, his experience might have spare she the contaminating

propinquity of the low rabble, yet, consider the circumstance, he

do not regret his absence, since he be require for my lady's

protection, and, no doubt, two fond heart have be make happy.  then,

in the midnight alarm, when the young nobleman have be disable,

Delaford have be the grand champion:--he have rouse the establishment;

he have calm every one's fear; he have suggest arm all the

waiter, and fortify the window; he have be the only undaunted

representative of the British Lion, when the environ swarm with

deadly foe, with pike and musket flash in the darkness.



Fanshawe have be much too busy with her ladyship's nerve, and too

ignorant of French, to gather enough for his refutation, have she wish

for it; and, in fact, she have regard he as the only safeguard of the

party, devoutly believe all his report, and now she be equally

willing to magnify her own adventure.  what a hero Delaford be all

over the terrace and its vicinity!  People look out to see the

defender of the british name; and Charlotte Arnold mend stocking,

and wonder whether her cruelty have make he so desperately courageous.



she could almost have be sorry that the various arrival keep the

domestic establishment of both house so fully occupy!  Poor Tom!

she have be a long time without hearing of he! and a hero be turn

up on her hand!



the world be not tranquil above-stair.  the removal of the one great

obstacle to James's attachment have only make a thousand other visible;

and he relapse into ill-suppress irritability, to the disappointment

of Louis, who do not perceive the cause.  at night, however, when Mrs.

Frost have go up, after receive a promise, mean sincerely, however

it might be keep, that 'poor Louis' should not be keep up late, James

begin with a groan:



'now that you be here to attend to my grandmother, I be go to

answer this advertisement for a curate near the Land's end.'



'Heyday!'



'it be beyond human endurance to see she daily and not to speak! I

should run wild!  it would be use Lady Conway shamefully.'



'and some one else.  what should hinder you from speak?'



'you talk as if every one be heir to a peerage.'



'I know what I be say.  I do not see the way to your marriage just

yet, but it would be mere trifling with her feeling, after what have

pass already, not to give she the option of engage herself.'



'I'm sure I don't know what I say!  I be out of myself.  I be

ashamed to remember that I have betray myself, and dare not guess

what construction she put on it.'



'such a construction as could only come from her own heart!'



after some rapture, James add, attempt to be cool, 'you candidly

think I have go so far, that I be bind in honour to make

explanation.'



'I be sure it would make she very unhappy if you go off in

magnanimous silence to the Land's end; and remain as the boy's

tutor, without confession, would be a mere delusion and treachery

towards my aunt.'



'that woman!'



'she be not her mother.'



'who know how far she will think herself bind to obedience?  with

that sort of relationship, nobody know what to be at.'



'I don't think Isabel wish to make her duty to Lady Conway more

stringent than necessary.  they live in utterly different sphere; and,

at least, you can be no bad off than you be already.'



'I may be expose she to annoyance.  woman have ten million way of

persecute each other.'



'have you see Isabel's eye when she look on the wild crowd, you would

know how little she would heed bad persecution than my poor aunt

could practise.  it will soon be my turn to say you don't deserve she.'



James be argue against his own impulse, and his scruple only

desire to be talk down; Louis's generous and inconsiderate ardour

prevail, and, after interminable discussion, it be agree that,

after some communication with the young lady herself, an interview

should be seek with Lady Conway, for which James be already

bristling, prepare to resent scorn with scorn.



in the morning, he be savage with shamefacedness, could not endure any

spectator, and fairly hunt his cousin home to Ormersfield, where

Louis prowl about in suspense--give contradictory order to Frampton,

talk as if he be asleep, make Frampton conclude that he have leave his

heart behind he, and be ever roam towards the Northwold turnpike.



at about four o'clock, a black figure be see post along the centre

of the road, and, heated, panting, and glowing, James come up--make a

decide and vehement nod with his head, but do not speak till they have

turn into the park, when he throw himself flat on the grass under an

old thorn, and Louis follow his example, while Farmer Morris's

respectable cow stare at the invasion of their privacy.



'Tout va bien?' ask Louis.



'as well as a man in my position can expect!  she be the most noble of

create being, Louis!'



'and what be her mother?'



'don't call her mother!  you shall hear.  I could not stay at home! I

go to the Faithfulls' room: I find Miss Mercy wait for she, to

join in a walk to some poor person.  I go with they.  I check she

when she be go into the cottage.  we have be walk round

Brackley's fields--'



'and poor Miss Mercy?'



'never remember she till this moment!'



'she will forgive!  and her ladyship?'



'that's the bad of it.  she be nearly as bad as you could have

been!--so intensely civil and amiable, that I begin to think she all on

my side.  I really could be take in to suppose she feel for we!'



'I have no doubt she do.  my good aunt be very sincerely loth to hurt

people's feeling.'



'she talk of her duty!  she sympathize!  it be not till I be out

of the house that I see it be all by way of let I down

easy-trap I into bind myself on honour not to correspond.'



'not correspond!' cry Louis, in consternation.  'be you not engage?'



'as far as understand each other go.  but who know what may be

her machination, or Isabel's sense of obedience?'



'do she forbid it?'



'no.  she go to speak to Isabel.  I fancy she find it unwise to test

her power too far; so she come down and palavered me,--assured I that

I be personally all that heart could wish--she love her dear child

the well for value solid merit.  Faugh! how could I stand such

gammon?  but I must perceive that she be peculiarly circumstance with

regard to Isabel's family, she must not seem to sanction an engagement

till I could offer a home suit to her expectation.  she say

something of my Uncle Oliver; but I dispose of that.  however, I dare

say it make she less willing to throw I overboard!  anyway, she

smooth I and natter I, till I end by agree that she have no

choice but to remove instanter from the terrace, and forbid I her

abode!  and, as I say, she worm a promise from I not to correspond.'



'you have no great loss there. depend upon it that Isabel would neither

brave she openly by receive your letter, nor submit to do anything

underhand.'



'nor would I ask her!--but it be intolerable to have be trick into

complacent consent.'



'I be glad your belle-mere know how to manage you.'



'I tell you she be only less unbearable than yourself.  you have it

from the same stock.'



'the well for your future peace.  I honour she.  if she have let the

Welsh dragon show his tooth in style, he would only have have to make

unpleasant apology when the good time come.'



'when!' sigh James.



'if Isabel be the woman I take she for, she will be easily content.'



'she be sick of parade; she have try how little it can do for a mind

like her: she desire nothing but a home like our own--but what

prospect have I of any such thing?  even if the loss of my fellowship

be compensate, how could I marry and let Clara be a governess? Clara

must be my first consideration.  but, I say, we ought to be go home.'



'I think I be at home.'



'my grandmother and Jane willn't be pacify till they see you.  they

think you be not fit to be in a house by yourself.  they both fall on

I for having let you go.  you must come back, or my grandmother will

think you go off in despair, as you ought to be, and I shall never

dare to speak to she.'



'at your service,' say the duteous Fitzjocelyn.  'I'll leave word at

the lodge.'



'by-the-bye, be you up to walk?'



'candidly, now I think of it, I doubt whether I be.  come, and let we

order the carriage.'



'no--no;--I cann't stand wait--I'll go home and get over the first

with granny--you come after.  yes; that's right.'



so the hunt Louis wait, contentedly, while James march back,

chary of his precious secret, and unwilling to reveal it even to she,

and yet want her sympathy.



the disclosure be a great shock than he have expect from her keen

and playful interest in matter of love and matrimony.  it be a

revival of the mournful past, and she shed tear as she besought he

not to be imprudent, to remember his poor father, and not rush into a

hasty marriage.  he and his sister have be use to poverty, but it be

different with Miss Conway.



he bitterly reply, that Lady Conway would take care they be not

imprudent; and that instant the granny's heart melt at the thought of

his uncertain prospect, and at hearing of the struggle and suffering

that he have undergo.  they have not talk half an hour, before she

have take home Isabel Conway to her heart as a daughter, and fly in

the face of all her wisdom, but assure he that she well know that

rich have little to do with happiness, augur an excellent living,

and, with great sagacity, promise to settle the Terrace on his wife,

and repeat, in perfect good faith, all the wonderful probability

which her husband have see in it forty year ago.



when Louis arrive, he find she alone, and divide between pride in

her grandson's conquest, and some anxiety on his own account, which

take the form of ask he what he mean by say that Isabel aim

high than himself.



'do she not?' say Louis; and with a sort of compunction for a playful

allusion to the sacred calling, he turn it off with, 'why, what do

you think of Roland ap Dynasvawr ap Roland ap Gruffydd ap Rhys ap

Morgan ap Llywellwyn ap Roderic ap Caradoc ap Arthur ap Uther ap

Pendragon?' run this off with calm, slow, impressive deliberation.



'certify I, Louis dear, before I can quite rejoice, that this fun be

not put on.'



'do you think I an arrant dissembler?  no, indeed: before I guess

how it be with they, I have find out--oh! Aunt Kitty, shall I ever get

Mary to believe in I, after the ridiculous way in which I have behave

to she?'



'be this what you really mean?'



'indeed it be.  the very presence of Isabel could not keep I from

recur to she; and at home, not a room, not a scene, but be replete

with recollection of all that she be to I last year!  and that I

should only understand it when half the world be between we! how mad I

be!  how shall I ever persuade she to forget my past folly?  Past!

Nay, folly and inconsistency be blend in all I do, and now they have

lose I the only person who could help I to conquer they!  and now she

be beyond my reach, and I shall never be worthy of she.'



he be much agitated.  the sight of James's success, and the return to

his solitary home, have stir up his feeling very strongly; and he

need his aunt's fond soothing and sympathy--but it be not difficult

to comfort and cheer he.  his disposition be form more for

affection than passion, and his attachment to Mary be of a calm

nature than his fiery cousin would have allow to be love. it take a

good deal of working-up to make it outwardly affect his spirit or

demeanour, in general, it serve only as an ingredient in the

pensiveness that pervade all his mood, even his most arrant nonsense.



the building of castle for James, and the narration of the pleasing

delusion in which he have bring home his aunt, be sufficient to

enliven he.  he be to go the next morning to call upon Lady Conway,

and see whether he could persuade she into any concession: James be

very anxious that Isabel and his grandmother should meet, and be

begin to propose that Louis should arrange an interview for they in

Miss Faithfull's room, before the departure, which be fix for Monday.



'I intend to call upon Lady Conway,' say Mrs. Frost, with dignity that

make he feel as if he have be propose something contraband.



Louis go first, and be highly entertain by the air of apology and

condolence with which his aunt receive he.  she tell he how

excessively concerned she be, and how guilty she feel towards he--a

score on which, he assure she, she have no need to reproach herself.

she have hear enough from Isabel to lead to so much admiration of his

generosity, that he be oblige to put a stop to it, without be

skilful enough to render sincerity amiable, but she seem satisfied,

eagerly assure he of her approval, and declare that she fully

understand he.



have she explain, he would have think her understanding go too

far.  she entirely forgive he.  after all, he be her own sister's

son, and Isabel only a step-daughter; and though she have do her duty

by put Isabel in the way of the connexion, she secretly commend

his prudence in withstand beauty, and repair the dilapidate

estate with peruvian gold.  she sound he, as a very wise man, on the

chance of Oliver Dynevor do something for his nephew, but do not

receive much encouragement; though he prophesy that James be certain

to get on, and utter a rhapsody that nearly destroy his new

reputation for judgment.  Lady Conway give he an affectionate

invitation to visit she whenever he could, and summon the young

lady to wish he good-bye.  the mute, blush gratitude of Isabel's

look be beautiful beyond description; and Virginia's countenance be

exceedingly arch and keen, though she be suppose to know nothing of

the state of affair.



Lady Conway be alone when Mrs. Frost be see approach the house.

the lady at once prepared to be affably gracious to her apology and

deprecation of displeasure; but she be quite disconcert by the

dignified manner of her entrance;--tall, noble-look, in all the

simple majesty of age, and of a high though gentle spirit, Lady Conway

be surprise into absolute respect, and have to rally her idea before,

with a slight laugh, she could say, 'I see you be come to condole with

I on the folly of our two young people.'



'I think too highly of they to call it folly,' say the heiress of the

Dynevors.



'why, in one way, to be sure,' hesitate Lady Conway, 'we cannot call

it folly to be sensible of each other's merit; and if--if Mr. Dynevor

have any expectation--I think your son be unmarried?'



'he be;' but she add, smile, 'you will not expect I to allow that

my young child be old enough to warrant any calculation on that

score.'



'it be very unfortunate; I pity they from my heart.  an engagement of

this kind be a wretched beginning for life.'



'oh, do not say so!' cry the old lady, 'it may often be the great

blessing, the good incentive to both party.'



Lady Conway be too much surprised to make a direct answer, but she

continue, 'if my brother could exert his interest--and I know that he

have so high an opinion of dear Mr. Dynevor--and you have so much

influence.  that dear, generous Fitzjocelyn, too--'



as soon as Mrs. Frost understand whom Lady Conway designate as her

brother, she draw herself up, and say, coldly, that Lord Ormersfield

have no church patronage, and no interest that he could exert on behalf

of her grandson.



again, 'it be most unlucky;' and Lady Conway proceed to say that she

be the more bound to act in opposition to her own feeling, because

Mr. Mansell be resolve against bequeath Beauchastel to any of his

cousinhood who might marry a clergyman; dislike that the place should

fall to a man who ought not to reside.  it be a most unfortunate

scruple; but in order to avoid offend he, and lose any chance,

the engagement must remain a secret.



Mrs. Frost reply, that Mr. Mansell be perfectly right; and seem in

nowise discomfited or conscious that there be any condescension on her

ladyship's part in wink at an attachment between Miss Conway and a

Dynevor of Cheveleigh.  she make neither complaint nor apology; there

be nothing for Lady Conway to be gracious about; and when the request

be make to see Miss Conway, her superiority be so fully establish

that there be no demur, and the favour seem to be on her side.



the noble old matron have long be a subject of almost timid veneration

to the maiden, and she obey the summon with more bashful awe than

she have ever feel before; and with much fear lest the two elder might

have be combine to make an appeal to she to give up her betrothal,

for James's sake.



as she enter, the old lady come to meet she, hold out both arm, and

draw she into her bosom, with the fond word, 'my dear child!'



Isabel rest in her embrace, as if she have find her own mother again.



'my dear child,' again say Mrs. Frost, 'I be glad you like my Jem, for

he have always be a good boy to his granny.'



the homeliness of the word make they particularly endear, and

Isabel venture to put her arm round the slender waist.



'yes, darling,' continue the grandmother; 'you will make he good and

happy, and you must teach he to be patient, for I be afraid you will

both want a great deal of patience and submission.'



'he will teach I,' whisper Isabel.



Lady Conway be fairly cry.



'I be glad to know that he have you to look to, when his old grandmother

be go.'



'oh, don't say--'



'I shall make way for you some day,' say Mrs. Frost, caress she.

'you be leave we, my dear.  it be quite right, and we will not

murmur; but would not your mamma spare you to we for one evening? could

you not come and drink tea with we, that we may know each other a

little well?'



the stepmother's affectionate assent, and even emotion, be a great

surprise to Isabel; and James begin to imagine that nothing be beyond

Mrs. Frost's power.



Louis save James the trouble of drive he away by go to dine with

Mr. Calcott, and the evening be happy, even beyond anticipation; the

grandmother all affection, James all restless bliss, Isabel serene amid

her blush; and yet the conversation would not thrive, till Mrs. Frost

take they out walk, and, when in the lonely lane, conceive a

wish to inquire the price of poultry at the near farm, and send the

other to walk on.  long do she talk of the crop, discourse of the

French and bohemian enormity, and smilingly contradict report that

the young lord be to marry the young lady, before the lover

reappear, without the most distant idea where they have be.



after that, they could not leave off talk; they take granny into

their counsel, and she hear Isabel confess how the day-dream of her

life have be to live among the 'very good.'  she smile with humble

self-conviction of fall far beneath the standard, as she discover

that the enthusiastic girl have find all her aspiration for 'goodness'

realize by Dynevor Terrace; and regard it as peace, joy, and

honour, to be link with it.  the newly-find happiness, and the

effort to be worthy of it, be to bear she through all uncongenial

scene; she have such a secret of joy that she should never repine again.



'ah!  Isabel, and what be I to do?' say James.



'you ask?' she say, smile.  'you, who have Northwold for your home,

and live in the atmosphere I only breathe now and then?'



'your presence be my atmosphere of life.'



'Mrs. Frost, tell he he must not talk so wrongly, so extravagantly, I

mean.'



'it may be wrong; it be not extravagant.  it fall only too far short

of my feeling!  what will the Terrace be without you?'



'it will not be without my thought.  how often I shall think I see the

broad road, and the wide field, and the mountain-ash berry, that be

redden when we come; and the canary in the window!  how little my

first glance at the house take in what they would be to I!'



and then they have to settle the haunt she be to revisit at

Beauchastel.  an invitation thither be the ostensible cause of the

rapid break-up from the House Beautiful; but the truth be not so

veil but that there be many surmise among the uninitiated.  Jane

have catch something from my young Lord's demeanour which certify

she, and make she so exceedingly proud and grand, that, though she be

too honourable to breathe a word of her discovery, she walk with she

kind old head three inch higher; and, as a great favour, show

Charlotte a piece of poor dear Master Henry's bridecake, keep for luck,

and a little roll of treasured real Brussels lace, that she have save

to adorn her cap whenever Mr. James should marry.



Charlotte be not absolutely as attentive as she might have be to

such interesting curiosity.  she have one eye towards the window all

the time; she want to be certify how deeply she have wound the

hero of the barricade, and she have absolutely not see he since his

return!  the little damsel miss homage!



'you be not heed I!' exclaim Jane at last.



'yes; I beg your pardon, ma'am--'



'Charlotte, take care.  mind I, one thing at a time,' say Jane,

oracularly.  'not one eye here, the other there!'



'I'm sure I don't know what you mean, Mrs. Beckett.'



'come, don't colour up, and say you don't know nothing!  why do you

water your lemon plant three time over, but that you want to be

look out of window?  why do you never top nor tail the gooseberry

for the pudding, but send they up fit to choke my poor missus?  if

Master Jem hadn't--bless I! what be I go to say?--but we should

soon have hear of it!  no, no, Charlotte; I've be a mother to you

ever since you come here, a little starveling thing, and I'll speak

plain for your good.  if you fancy that genteel butler in there, say so

downright; but first sit down, and write away a letter to give up the

other young man!'



Charlotte's cheek be in a flame, and something vehement at the end

of her tongue, when, with a gentle knock, and 'by your favour, lady,'

in walk Mr. Delaford.



Jane be very civil, but very stiff at first, till he thaw she by

great praise of Lord Fitzjocelyn, the mere prelude to his own

magnificent exploit.



Charlotte listen like a very Desdemona.  he be very pathetic, and

all that be not self-exaltation be aim at she.  nothing could have

be more welcome than the bullet to penetrate his heart, and he

turn up his eye in a feeling manner.



Charlotte's heart be exceedingly touch, and she have tear in her

eye when she move forward in the attitude of the porcelain

shepherdess in the parlour, to return a little volume of selection of

tender poetry, bind in crimson silk, that he have lend to she some time

since. 'would she not honour he by accept a trifling gift?'



she blush, she accept; and with needle-like pen, in character fine

as hair, upon a scroll garlanded with forget-I-not, and bear in mid

air by two portly dove, be Charlotte Arnold's name inscribe by the

hero of the barricade.



oh, vanity! vanity! how many garb dost thou wear!



Delaford go away, satisfied that he have produce an impression such

as he could improve if they should ever be throw together again.



the Lady of Eschalott remain anything but satisfied.  she be touchy

and fretful, find everything a grievance, leave cobwebs in the corner,

and finally go into hysteric because the cat jump at the

canary-bird's cage.









CHAPTER XXII.



burgomaster and great one-eyer.



  when full upon his ardent soul

  the champion feel the influence roll,

  he swim the lake, he leap the wall,

  heed not the depth, nor plumb the fall.

  unshielded, mailless, on he go,

  singly against a host of foe!

                       Harold the dauntless.





'Jem!  Jem! have you hear?'



'what should I hear?'



'Mr. Lester be go to retire at Christmas!'



'do that account for your irrational excitement?'



'and it have not occur to you that the grammar-school would be the

making of you!  Endowment, 150 pound--thirty, forty boy at 10 pound

per annum, 400 pound at least.  that be 550 pound--say 600 pound for

certain; and it would be double under a scholar and a gentleman--1200

pound a year!  and you might throw it open to boarder; set up the

house in the Terrace, and let they at--say 40 pound?  nine house,

nine time forty--'



'well do, Fitzjocelyn!  at this rate one need not go out to Peru.'



'exactly so; you would be double the value of your own property as a

secondary consideration, and do incalculable good--'



'as if there be any more chance of my get the school than of the

rest of it!'



'so you really have not think of stand?'



'I would, most gladly, if there be the least hope of success.  I

cann't afford to miss any chance; but it be mere folly to talk of it.

one-half of the trustee det my principle; the other would think

themselves insult by a young man in deacon's order offer himself.'



'it be evident that you be the only man on whom they can combine who

can save the school, and do any good to all those boy--mind you, the

important middle class, whom I would do anything to train in sound

principle.'



'so far, it be in my favour that I be one of the few University man

educate here.'



'you be your grandmother's grandson--that be everything! and you have

more experience of teaching than most man twice your age.'



James make a face at his experience; but little stimulus be need to

make he attempt to avail himself of so fair an opening, come so much

soon than he could have dare to expect.  it be now September, and

the two month of waiting and separation seem already like so many

year.  by the time Mrs. Frost come in from her walk, she find the two

young gentleman devise a circular, and composing application for

testimonial.



after the first start of surprise, and tell James he ought to go to

school himself, Mrs. Frost be easily persuade to enter heartily into

the project; but she insist on the first measure be to consult Mr.

Calcott.  he be the head of the old sound and respectable party--the

chairman of everything, both in county and borough--and have the casting

vote among the eight trustee of King Edward's School, who, by old

custom, nominate each other from the landholder within the town.  she

strongly deprecate attempt anything without first ascertain his

view; and, as the young man have lash themselves into great ardour,

the three walk off at once to lay the proposal before the squire.



but Mr. Calcott be not at home.  he have set off yesterday, with Miss

Calcott and Miss Caroline, for a tour in Wales, and would not return

for a week or ten day.



to the imagination of Lord Fitzjocelyn and Mr. Frost, this be fatal

delay.  besides, he would be sure to linger!--He would not come home

for a month--nay, six week at least!--What candidate might not

start--what pledge might not be give in the meantime!



James, vehement and disappointed, go home to spend the evening on the

concoction of what his grandmother approve as 'a very proper letter,'

to be despatch to meet the squire at the post-office at Caernarvon,

and resign himself to grumble away the period of his absence,

secretly relieve at the postponement of the evil day of the canvass,

at which all the Pendragon blood be in a state of revolt.



but Louis, in his solitude at Ormersfield, have nothing to distract his

thought, or prevent he from lapse into one of his most single-eye

fit of impetuosity.  he have come to regard James as the sole hope for

Northwold school, and Northwold school as the sole hope for James; and

have create an indefinite host of dangerous applicant, only to be

forestall by the most vigorous measure. evening, night, and morning,

do but increase the conviction, till he order his horse, and

gallop to the terrace as though the speed of his charger would decide

the contest.



eloquently and piteously do he protest against James's promise to take

no step until the Squire's opinion should be know.  he convince his

cousin, talk over his aunt, and prevail to have the letter

re-write, and send off to the post with the application for

testimonial.



then the rough draft of the circular be revise and correct, till it

appear so admirable to Louis, that he snatch it up, and run away

with it to read it to old Mr. Walby, who be one of the trustee, and

very fond of his last year's patient.  his promise, good easy man, be

pretty sure to be the prize of the first applicant; but this do not

render it less valuable to his young lordship, who come back all

glorious with an eighth part of the victory, and highly delighted with

the excellent apothecary's most judicious and gratifying

sentiments,--namely, all his own eager rhetoric, to which the good man

have cordially give his meek puzzle-head assent.  Thenceforth Mr.

Walby be to 'think' all Fitzjocelyn's strong recommendation of his

cousin.



there be no use in hold back now.  James be commit, and,

besides, there be a vision loom in the distance of a scholar from a

foreign University with less than half a creed.  thenceforth prompt

measure be a mere duty to the rise generation; and Louis drag

his Coriolanus into the town, to call upon certain substantial

tradesman, who have voice among the eight.



Civility be great; but the portly grocer and gentlemanly bookseller

have both learn prudence in many an election; neither would make any

immediate reply--the one because he never do anything but what Mr.

Calcott direct, and the other never pledge himself till all the

candidate be in the field, and he have impartially print all their

address.



Richardson, the solicitor, and man-of-business to the Ormersfield

estate, appear so sure a card, that James declare that he be

ashamed of the farce of call on he, but they obtain no decided

reply.  Louis be proud that Richardson should display an independent

conscience, and disdain his cousin's sneer comment, that he have

forget that there be other client in the county besides the

Fitzjocelyns.



no power could drag Mr. Frost a step far.  he would not hear of

canvass that 'very intelligent' Mr. Ramsbotham, of the Factory, who

have be choose at unaware by the trustee before his principle have

develop themselves; far less on his nominee, the wealthy butcher,

always more demonstratively of the same mind.



James declare, first, that he would have nothing to do with they;

secondly, that he could not answer it to the Earl to let Louis ask a

favour of they; thirdly, that he have rather fail than owe his election

to they; fourthly, that it would be most improper usage of Mr. Calcott

to curry favour with man who systematically oppose he; and, fifthly,

that they could only vote for he on a misunderstanding of his

intention.



the eighth trustee be a dead letter,--an old gentleman long retire

from business at his bank to a cottage at the Lakes, where he be

write to, but without much hope of his take the trouble even to

reply.  however, if the choice lie only between James and the

representative of the new light, there could be little reasonable fear.



much fret and fuming be expend on the non-arrival of a letter

from Mr. Calcott; but on the appoint tenth day he come home, and the

next morning James be at Ormersfield in an agony of disappointment.

the Squire have send he a note, kind in expression, regret his

inability to give his interest to one for whom he have always so much

regard, and whose family he so highly respected, but that he have

already promise his support to a Mr. Powell, the under-master of a

large classical school, whom he think calculate for the situation,

both by experience and acquirement.



James have be make sure enough of the school to growl at his

intend duty; but he have build so entirely on success, and form so

many project, that the disappointment be extreme; it appear a cruel

injury in so old a friend to have overlook he.  he have be much

vex with his grandmother for regard the veto as decisive; and he

view all his hope of happiness with Isabel as overthrow.



Louis partook and exaggerate his sentiment.  they rail--the one

fiercely, the other philosophically--against the squire's domineering;

they prove he narrow and prejudiced--afraid of youth, afraid of

salutary reform, bent on prolong the dull old system, and on

bring in a mere usher.  they recollect a mauvais sujet from the

say classical school; argue that it never turn out good scholar,

nor good man; and that they should be confer the great benefit

on Northwold burgher yet unborn, by recall the old squire to a

well mind, or by bring in James Frost in spite of he.



not without hope of the first, though, as James tell he, no one would

have nourish they save himself, Louis set forth for Little Northwold,

with the same valour which have make he the champion of the Marksedge

poacher.  he find the old gentleman good-natured and sympathizing, for

he like the warm friendship of 'the two boy,' and have not the most

remote idea of their dispute his verdict.



'it be very unlucky that I be from home,' he say.  'I be afraid the

disappointment will be the great from its having go so far.'



'may I ask whether you be absolutely pledge to Mr. Powell?'



'why, yes.  I may say so.  consider all thing, it be good as it be.

I should have be unwilling to vex my good old friend, Mrs. Frost; and

yet,' smile benignantly on his fretted auditor, 'I have to look out

for the school first of all, you know.'



'perhaps I shall not allow that Mr. Powell be the good look-out for the

school, sir.'



'eh?  the good under the circumstance.  such a place as this want

experience and discipline more than scholarship.  Powell be the very

man, and have be wait for it long; and young Frost could do much

well for himself, if he will only have patience.'



'then his age be all that be against he?  the only inferiority to Mr.

Powell?



'hm! yes, I may say so.  Inferior?  no, he be superior enough; it be a

mere joke to compare they; but this be not a post for one of your young

unmarried man.'



'if that be all,' cry Louis, 'the objection would be soon remove. it

may be an inducement to hear that you would be make two people happy

instead of one.'



'now, don't tell I so!' almost angrily exclaim the Squire.  'Jem

Frost marry!  he have no business to think of it these ten year!  he

ought to be mind his grandmother and sister.  to marry on that

school would be serve poor Mrs. Frost exactly as his poor absurd

father do before he, and she be too old to have all that over again.

I think he be of a different sort of stamp.'



'my aunt give her full consent.'



'I've no doubt of it! just like she!  but he ought to be ashamed to ask

she, at her age, when she should have every comfort he could give she.

Pray, who be the lady?  there be some nonsense afloat about Miss

Conway; but I never believe he so foolish!'



'it be perfectly true, but I must beg you not to mention it; I ought

not to have be betray into mention it.'



'you need not caution I.  it be not news I should be forward to

spread.  what do your father say to it?'



'the engagement take place since he leave England.'



'I should think so!'  then pause, he add, with condescend

good-nature, 'well, Fitzjocelyn, I seem to you a terrible old

flint-stone, but I cann't help that.  there be consideration besides

true love, you know; and for these young people, they cann't have pine

out their heart yet, as, by your own showing, they have not be

engage three month.  if it be Sydney himself, I should tell he

that love be all the well for keep--if it be good for anything;

and where there be such a disparity, it ought, above all, to be test

by wait.  so tell Master Jem, with my good wish, to take care of

his grandmother.  I shall think myself do he a kindness in keep

he out of the school, if it be to hinder he from marry at

four-and-twenty, and a girl bring up as she have be!'



'and, Mr. Calcott,' say Louis, rise, 'you will excuse my view my

cousin's engagement as an additional motive for do my utmost to

promote his success in obtain a situation, for which I consider he

as eminently fit.  good morning, sir.'



'good morning, my Lord.'



Lord Fitzjocelyn depart so grave, so courteous, so dignified, so

resolute, so comically like his father, that the old Squire throw

himself back in his chair and laugh heartily.  the magnificent

challenge of war to the knife, be no more to he than the adjuration

he have hear last year in the justice-room; and he no more expect

these two lad to make any effectual opposition than he do to see they

repeal the game-law.



the Viscount meanwhile ride off thoroughly rouse to indignation. the

good sense of sixty naturally fall hard and cold on the ear of

twenty-two, and it be one of the moment when counsel inflame instead

of check he.  never angry on his own account, he could be

exceedingly wrathful for other; and the unlucky word, disparity, drive

he especially wild.  in mere charity, he think it right to withhold

this insult to the Pendragons from his cousin's ear; but this very

reserve seem to bind he to resent it in James's stead; and he be

far more blindly impetuous than if, as usual, he have see James so

vehement that he be oblige to try to curb and restrain he.



he would not hear of give in!  when the Ramsbotham candidate

appear, and James scruple to divide the contrary interest, Louis

lay the whole blame of the split upon Mr. Calcott; while, as to poor

Mr. Powell, no word be compassionate enough for his dull, slouch,

ungentlemanly air; and he be pronounce to be an old writing-master,

fit for nothing but to mend pen.



but Mr. Walby's be still their sole promise.  the grocer follow the

Squire; the bookseller be liberal, and have invite the Ramsbotham

candidate to dinner.  on this alarming symptom, Fitzjocelyn fall upon

Richardson, and talk, and talk, and talk, till the solicitor

could either bear it no long, or fear for the Ormersfield agency,

and his vote be carry off as a captive.



this triumph alarm Mrs. Frost and James, who know how scrupulously

the Earl abstain from seek anything like a favour at Northwold;

and they try to impress this on Louis, but he be exalt far above

even understand the remonstrance.  it be all their

disinterestedness; he have no notion of that guard pride which would

incur no obligation.  no, no; if Jem would be beholden to no one, he

would accept all as personal kindness to himself.  expect a return! he

return good-will--of course he would do any one a kindness. claim,

involve himself! he would take care of that; and off he go laugh.



he come in the next day, announce a still grander and more formidable

encounter.  he have meet Mr. Ramsbotham himself, and secure his promise

that, in case he fail in carry his own man, he and the butcher

would support Mr. Frost.



the fact be, that Lord Fitzjocelyn's advocacy of the poacher, his free

address, his sympathy for 'the masse,' and his careless word, have

inspire expectation of his liberal view; Mr. Ramsbotham be not

sorry to establish a claim, and be likewise gratify by the frank

engaging manner, which increase the pleasure of be solicit by a

nobleman--a distinction of which he think more than do all the

opposite party.



to put James beyond the peril of the cast vote be next the point.

without divulge his tactic, Louis fly off one morning by the train,

make a sudden descent on the recluse banker at Ambleside, barbarously

use his gift of the ceaseless tongue, till the poor old man be nearly

distract, touch his wife's tender heart with good old Mrs. Frost

and the two lover, and make her promise to bring he comfortably and

quietly down to stay at Ormersfield and give his vote.



and so, when the election finally come on, Mr. Calcott find himself

leave with only his faithful grocer to support his protege.  three vote

be give at once for the Reverend James Roland Frost Dynevor; the

bookseller follow as soon as he see how the land lay; and Ramsbotham

and Co. swell the majority as soon as they see that their friend have

no chance.



Poor Mr. Powell go home to his drudgery with his wrinkle deeply than

ever; and his wife sigh as she resign her last hope of send she

son to the University.



Mr. Calcott have, for the first time in his life, be over-ridden by an

unscrupulous use of his neighbour's rank; and of the youthfulness that

inspire hope of fix a claim on an untried, inexperienced man.



the old squire be severely hurt and mortify; but he be very

magnanimous--generously wish James joy, and congratulate Mrs. Frost

with all his heart.  he be less cordial with Louis; but the bad he

say of he be, that he be but a lad, his father be out of the way,

and he wish he might not find that he have get himself into a scrape.

he could not think why a man of old Ormersfield's age should go

figure round Cape Horn, instead of stay to keep his own son in

order.



Sydney be absent; but the rest of the family and their friend be

less forbearing than the person chiefly concerned.  they talk

furiously, and make a strong exertion of forgiveness in order not to

cut Fitzjocelyn.  Sir Gilbert Brewster vow that it would serve he

right to be turn out of the troop, and that he must keep a sharp look

out lest he should sow disaffection among the Yeomanry.  make friend

with Ramsbotham! never take out a gun!  the country be go to the

dog when such as he be to be a peer!











END of VOL. I.





















end of Project Gutenberg's Dynevor Terrace (Vol. i), by Charlotte M. Yonge







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK DYNEVOR TERRACE; OR, the clue of life — volume 1 ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





