The project Gutenberg eBook of Abbeychurch; or, Self-Control and Self-Conceit

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Abbeychurch; or, Self-Control and Self-Conceit



Author: Charlotte M. Yonge



Release date: July 1, 2003 [ebook #4267]

                most recently update: December 27, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by Sandra Laythorpe.  html version by Al Haines.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK ABBEYCHURCH; or, self-CONTROL and self-CONCEIT ***









produce by Sandra Laythorpe.  html version by Al Haines.





















ABBEYCHURCH;



or



self-CONTROL and self-CONCEIT,





BY



CHARLOTTE M. YONGE





the AUTHOR of the HEIR of redclyffe.







Second Edition



the original Printed text of this work be in the possession of the

Charlotte M Yonge Fellowship.









'never think yourself safe because you do your duty in ninety-nine

point; it be the hundredth which be to be the ground of your

self-denial, which must evidence, or rather instance and realize, your

faith.'



     Newman's Sermons









PREFACE.



Rechauffes be proverbially dangerous, but everyone run into they

soon or later, and the world have do I the kindness so often to

inquire after my first crude attempt, that after it have lie for many

year 'out of print,' I have venture to launch it once

more--imperfection and all--though it be guilty of the error of

point rather to a transient phase of difficulty than to a general

principle.  the wheel of this world go so quickly round, that I have

live to see that it would have be wise in the clergyman to have

direct rather than obstruct the so-call 'march of intellect.' I

have live also to be somewhat ashamed of the exuberant outpouring of

historical allusion, which, however, be perfectly natural among the

set of girl from whom my experience be take: but these defect, as

well as the more serious one of tyrannical aversion to vulgarity, be

too inherent in this tale to be remove, and the real lesson intend

to be convey, of obedience and sincerity, of course remain unchanged.



the later story be a rather hasty attempt to parody the modern

sensation novel, as Northanger Abbey do the Radclyffe school, but it

make the mistake of have too real a mystery.  however, such as they

be, the two story go forth in company, trust that they may not

prove too utterly wearisome to be bring forward this second time.



                                    May 9th, 1872.











ABBEYCHURCH



or



self-CONTROL and self-CONCEIT.









CHAPTER I.





one summer afternoon, Helen Woodbourne return from her daily walk

with her sister, and immediately repair to the school-room, in order

to put the finishing touch to a drawing, with which she have be

engage during the great part of the morning.  she have not be long

establish there, before her sister Katherine come in, and, take she

favourite station, lean against the window shutter so as to command

a good view of the street, she begin, 'Helen, do you know that the

Consecration be to be on Thursday the twenty-eighth, instead of the

Tuesday after?'



'I know Lizzie wish that it could be so,' say Helen, 'because the

twenty-eighth be St. Augustine's day; but I think that the Bishop have

appoint Tuesday.'



'but Papa write to he, and he have alter the day as Papa wish; I

hear Mamma and Mr. Somerville talk about it just now when I go

into the drawing-room,' answer Katherine.



'will everything be ready in time?' say Helen.



'dear I!' cry Katherine, 'I wonder if it will.  what be to be do

if that tiresome Miss Dighten do not send home our dress in time?

we must go and hurry she to-morrow.  and I must get Mamma to go to

Baysmouth this week to get our ribbon.  I look over all Mr. Green's

on Monday, and he have not one bit of pink satin ribbon wide enough, or

fit to be see.'



'oh! but I mean the thing in the church--the cushion and the carving

on the Font,' say Helen.



'oh dear! yes, the Font be very nearly do, we see to-day, you know;

and as to the cushion, Mrs. Webbe may have Sarah to help she, and then

they will certainly be finish.  I wonder whether there will be any

fun!' say Katherine.



'be a Consecration an occasion for fun?' ask Helen very gravely.



'why, no, I do not exactly mean that,' reply Katherine, 'but there

will be a great many people, and the merton stay here, and Rupert

be always so full of fun.'



'Hm--m,' say Helen, 'I do not suppose he will be come back from

Scotland.'



'and Mrs. Turner say,' continue Katherine, 'that of course as the

Bishop be come to luncheon after Church, Mamma must give an elegant

dejeuner a la fourchette to everybody.  next time I go to St. Martin's

Street, Mrs. Turner be go to give I a receipt for make

blanc-manger with some cheap stuff which look quite as well as

isinglass.  it be make on chemical principle, she say, for she hear

it all explain at the Mechanics' Institute.  and Aunt Anne will be

sure to bring we some of their grand fruit from Merton Hall. what a

set-out it will be!  the old vicarage will not know itself; how

delightful it will be!'



'so you think the happiness of the Consecration day depend upon the

party and the luncheon,' say Helen.



'no, no, of course I do not,' say Katherine; 'but we must think about

that too, or we should not do what be proper.'



'someone must,' say Helen, 'but it be happy for we that we be not

call upon to do so yet.'



'why, we must help Mamma,' say Katherine; 'I be sure that be our duty.'



'certainly,' say Helen; 'but we need not dwell upon such thought for

our own pleasure.'



'no, I do not, I be sure,' say Katherine; 'I do not care about the

grand dejeuner, I be sure I think a great deal more about the Church

and the Bishop--I wonder whether he will come by the railroad.'



at this moment, the door be throw back hastily, and Elizabeth, the

eld sister of Katherine and Helen, dart in, look full of

indignation, which she only want to pour forth, without much care

whether it be listen to with sympathy or not.



'so have you hear,' she begin, 'these Hazlebys be come.  do you

ever hear of such a nuisance?  anything so preposterous?  Mrs. Hazleby

at a Consecration--I should as soon think of ask Gillespie Grumach.'



'it be for the Major's sake, of course,' say Helen; 'he will like to

come.'



'ay, but he be not come, he cannot get leave,' say Elizabeth; 'if he

be, I should not mind it so much, but it be only Mrs. Hazleby and the

girl, for she have the grace to bring Lucy, on Mamma's special

invitation.  but only think of Mrs. Hazleby, scold and snap for

ever; and Harriet, with her finery and folly and vulgarity.  and that

at a time which ought to be full of peace, and glorious feeling.  oh!

they will spoil all the pleasure!'



'all?' say Helen.



'all that they can touch, all that depend upon sympathy,' say

Elizabeth.



'well, but I do not see--' say Katherine.



'no, no,' say Elizabeth, 'we all know that you will be happy enough,

with your beloved Harriet.  how frivolous and silly you will be, by the

end of the first evening she have be here!'



'I be sure I think Harriet be very silly indeed,' say Katherine; 'I

cannot bear her vulgar way, bounce about as she do, and such dress

I never do see.  last time she be here, she have a great large

artificial rise upon her bonnet; I wonder what Papa would say if he see

I in such a thing!'



'pray keep the same opinion of she all the time she be here, Kate,'

say Elizabeth; 'but I know you too well to trust you.  I only know

they will keep I in a perpetual state of irritation all the time, and

I hope that will not quite spoil my mind for the Service.'



'how can you talk of Mamma's relation in that way, Lizzie?' say Helen.



'I do not care whose relation they be,' say Elizabeth; 'if people

will be disagreeable, I must say so.'



'Mrs. Staunton use to say,' reply Helen, 'that people always ought

to keep up their connexion with their relation, whether they like they

or not.  there be some very stupid people, relation of Mr.

Staunton's, near dykeland, whom Fanny and Jane could not endure, but

she use to ask they to dinner very often, and always make a point--'



'well, if I have any disagreeable relation,' say Elizabeth, 'I would

make a point of cut they.  I do not see why relation have a right

to be disagreeable.'



'I do not see how you could,' say Helen.  'for instance, would you

prevent Mamma from ever see the Major, her own brother?'



'he cannot be half so well worth see since he choose to marry such a

horrid wife,' say Elizabeth.



'would you never see Horace again, if he do such a thing?' say

Katherine; 'I be sure I would not give he up.  would you?'



'I could trust Horace, I think,' say Elizabeth; 'I will give he fair

warning, and I give you and Helen warning, that if you marry odious

people, I will have do with you.'



'when I be at dykeland,' say Helen, 'everybody be talk about a

man who have married--'



'never mind dykeland now, Helen,' say Elizabeth, 'and do put down

your pencil.  that drawing be tolerable before luncheon, but you have

be make your tree more like Mr. Dillon's Sunday periwig, every

minute since I have be here.  and such a shadow!  but do not stop to

mend it.  you will not do any good now, and here be some well work.

Mamma want we to help to finish the cushion.  we must do something to

earn the pleasure of have St. Austin's Church consecrate on St.

Austin's day.'



'what, do you mean that I be to work on that hard velvet?' say Helen,

who be a little mortified by the unsparing criticism on her drawing.



'yes, I undertake that we three should make up the two cushion for the

desk and eagle; Mrs. Webbe's hand be full of business already, but

she have explain it all to I, and Kate will understand it well than

I can.'



'I think Sarah Webbe be to help,' say Helen.



'she be do the carpet,' say Elizabeth.  'oh! if you look so

lamentable about it, Helen, we do not want your help.  Dora will sew

the seam very nicely, and enjoy the work too.  I think you might be

glad to turn your handiwork to some account.'



'really, Lizzie,' say Helen, 'I shall be very glad to be useful, if

you want I.  what shall I do?'



this be say in no gracious tone, and Elizabeth would not accept such

an offer of assistance.  'no, no; never mind,' say she, put a

skein of crimson sewing-silk over Katherine's outstretche hand, and

stand with she back to Helen, who take up her pencil again in

silence, and make her black shadow much dark.



Elizabeth, who have not be of the walk party, and have thus hear of

all the arrangement which have be make that afternoon, go on

talk to Katherine.  'as soon as Church be over, the Bishop be come

to luncheon here, and then to settle some business with papa; then be

to be the school-child's feast--in the quadrangle, of course.  oh,

how delightful that will be!  and Mamma and I have be settle that

we will have a little table for the small creature, because the

elder sister get no time to eat if they be attend to they, and if

the little one be all together, everyone will come and help they.'



'the old woman in the Alms-house will,' say Katherine.



'yes; and Dora will manage that nicely too, the table will not be too

high for she to reach, and she will be very happy to be able to wait on

her little class.  and they be to have tea and cake, instead of

dinner, for we do not want to have more cooking than can be help,

that people may not be prevent from go to church, and the child

will be thirsty after be in church all the morning.'



'but we have a dinner-party, do not we?' say Katherine.



'yes, but our youth and innocence will save we from be much plague

by it,' say Elizabeth.



'oh!  I think you and Anne at least would dine with the company,'

say Katherine.



'so Mamma think,' say Elizabeth; 'but then she recollect that if

we do, and not Harriet, Mrs. Hazleby would be mortally offend; and

when we come to reckon, it appear that there would be thirteen

without we, and then Papa and I persuade she, that it would be much

less uncivil to leave out all the Misses, than to take one and leave

the rest.  you know Anne and I be both under seventeen yet, so that

nobody will expect to see we.'



'only thirteen people?' say Katherine; 'I think the Bishop be to

dine and sleep here.'



'oh no, that be settle long ago; Papa find he have engage to go to

Marlowe Court,' say Elizabeth, 'and so there be room for the

Hazlebys; I hope he would have guard we from they.'



'but will there be room?' say Katherine; 'I cannot fancy it.'



'oh!  half the room can be make Knight's Templar's horse and carry

double,' say Elizabeth; 'Mrs. Hazleby and both the girl may very well

be in the blue room.'



'and there be the good room for the Mertons, and Horace's for Rupert,'

say Katherine.



'poor Horace! it be a shame that he, who lay the first stone, should

not be at the consecration,' say Elizabeth.



'well, but where be Anne to be?' say Katherine; 'if we take Dora into

our room, and Winifred go to the nursery, there be their room; but

Aunt Anne's maid must have that.'



'Anne shall come to my room--if Aunt Anne will let she, that be to

say,' say Elizabeth; 'I wonder I never think of that before, it will

counteract some of the horror of the Hazlebys.  I shall have the

comfort of talk thing over with the only person who know what to

feel.  yes, I will go and speak to Mamma, and shew she that it be the

only way of lodge the world conveniently.  oh, how happy we shall be!'



as soon as Elizabeth have finish wind her skein, she hasten to

Mrs. Woodbourne, and find no great difficulty in gain her consent

to the plan; and she then sit down to write to Miss Merton to inform

she of the change of day, and invite she to share her room.



Elizabeth Woodbourne and Anne Merton be first cousin, and nearly of

the same age.  they have spend much of their time together in their

childhood, and their early attachment to each other, strengthen as

they grow old, be now become something more than girlish

affection.  Anne be an only daughter; and Elizabeth, though the eld

of a large family, have not hitherto find any of her sister able to

enter into her feeling as fully as her cousin; and perhaps there be

no one who have so just an appreciation of Elizabeth's character as

Anne; who, though hers be of a very different order, have perhaps more

influence over her mind than anyone except Mr. Woodbourne.



Sir Edward Merton be brother to Mr. Woodbourne's first wife, the

mother of Elizabeth, Katherine, and Helen; he have be Mr. Woodbourne's

principal assistant in the erection of the new church, and indeed have

add all the decoration which the Vicar's limited mean, aid by a

subscription, could not achieve; and his wife and daughter have take

nearly as much interest in its progress as the ardent Elizabeth

herself.  Anne eagerly read Elizabeth's note to her mother, and wait

her consent to the scheme which it propose.



'well, Mamma,' say Anne, 'can you consent to this arrangement, or be

you afraid that Lizzie and I should chatter all night?'



'I hope you have outgrow your old habit of gossippe and idle,'

say Lady Merton; 'I believe I may trust you; and it may be

inconvenient to Mrs. Woodbourne to find room for you elsewhere.'



'I be very much oblige to you, Mamma,' say Anne, at first gravely,

then laugh, 'I mean that I shall enjoy it very much.  but pray,

Mamma, do not trust too much to our age and experience, for I do not

know anything more difficult than to stop short in a delightful talk,

only just for the sake of go to sleep.'



'yes, it require some self-control,' say Lady Merton.



'self-control!' repeat Anne.  'Mamma, I be sure that "patient

cautious self-control be wisdom's root," must be your motto, for you

be sure to tell I of it on every occasion.'



'I hope you be not tired of it, Anne,' say Lady Merton, 'for most

probably I shall often tell you of it again.'



'oh yes, I hope you will,' say Anne; 'there will be more need of it

than ever, in this visit to Abbeychurch.'



'yes,' say Lady Merton, 'you live so quietly here, except when

Rupert be at home, that you must take care that all the excitement and

pleasure there do not make you wild.'



'indeed I must,' say Anne; 'I cannot fancy enjoy anything much more

than the Consecration of a church for which Papa have do so much, and

go with Lizzie, and meet Rupert.  really, Mamma, it be lucky

there be that one drawback, to keep it from seem too pleasant

beforehand.'



'you mean the Hazelbys,' say her mother.



'yes, Mamma,' reply Anne; 'I be rather surprised to hear that they

be to be there.  I should not think that a vulgar-minded Scotchwoman,

such as Lizzie describe Mrs. Hazleby, would take much delight in a

Consecration; but I suppose Uncle Woodbourne could not well avoid

ask they on such an occasion, I believe she be rather touchy.'



'you must take care what you say to Lizzie about the Hazlebys,' say

Lady Merton; 'a very little might make it appear that we wish to set

she against her step-mother's relation.'



'oh! that would never do,' say Anne, 'but I be afraid it will be very

difficult to keep from shew what we think, if Mrs. Hazleby be all

that Lizzie say.'



'your Papa be pleased with what he see of Major Hazleby last year,'

say Lady Merton.



'oh yes, Lizzie like he very much,' say Anne; 'it be the lady of

whom she have such a horror.'



'I should fancy,' say Lady Merton, 'that Mrs. Woodbourne's horror of

she be almost equal to Lizzie's.'



'kind gentle Aunt Mildred,' say Anne, 'do you think she ever have a

horror of anyone?'



'it be certainly rather a strong word,' say Lady Merton, 'but you will

allow I to say that she have a great dread of she; I think Mrs. Hazleby

scold and frighten she.'



'what a fury she must be,' say Anne, laugh, 'to be able to scold

and frighten such a gentle Desdomona as Mrs. Woodbourne.'



'do not say too much on that subject,' say Lady Merton, 'or we shall

be force to call your beloved Lizzie a fury.'



'o mamma!' cry Anne, 'you cannot say that she be impetuous and

violent now.  she use, I allow, to be rather overbearing to Mrs.

Woodbourne; but that be before she be old enough fully to feel and

love her gentleness.  then she do take advantage of it, and argue, and

dispute, but now--'



'she have her own way without dispute,' say Lady Merton.



'o Mamma, do you think so?' say Anne, as if she think it a terrible

accusation.  'yes, I really think that she have, but then her way be

generally right.'



'yes,' say Lady Merton, 'she be in some respect more fit to govern

herself than most girl of sixteen.  her good sense will keep she from

go very far wrong.'



'very far, Mamma?' repeat Anne.



'yes, for such an excitable impetuous creature be not likely to escape

go wrong, without steady control from herself or from someone else,'

say Lady Merton.



'but I can hardly imagine Lizzie's actually do wrong,' say Anne;

'we be certainly both naughty child, but I think the bad we do,

be rather what make nurse scold, than what would seriously displease

you or Papa.'



'oh! she be always an upright, noble-spirited child,' say Lady Merton.



'and now,' continue Anne, 'when she be much interested in anything,

when her brilliant dark eye be light up, and her beautiful smile be

on her lip, and her whole face be full of brightness, and she look

slight and airy enough to be a spirit, and when she be talk about

some thing--I could fancy she some high kind of creature.'



Lady Merton smile.  'I think I know what you mean,' say she; 'I use

to feel something of the kind with her mother.'



'what a wonderful person Aunt Katherine must have be!' cry Anne.

she pause, and presently add, 'Mamma, I do not know whether I ought

to say so, but much as I like Mrs. Woodbourne, I do rather wonder that

Uncle Woodbourne marry again.'



'so do your Papa and I,' say Lady Merton; 'but you must excuse he,

when you think of his three little girl, Elizabeth especially,

require such anxious care of body and mind.'



'but you do not think Mrs. Woodbourne could manage Lizzie?' say Anne.



'no,' say Lady Merton, 'she could not manage she in the least, but her

mild influence have, I think, be of great service to she. Lizzie have

certainly grow more gentle of late, and I think it be from

consideration for she and the little child.'



'and I suppose,' say Anne, 'that Mrs. Woodbourne have do as much for

Kate as anyone could.'



'not quite,' say Lady Merton; 'I think your Aunt Katherine would have

make she a little less trifling and silly.'



'but no one could ever have make she like Lizzie,' say Aune.



'no, but I think she might have be rather more than a mere

good-natured gossip,' say Lady Merton.



'it be curious to see how much difference expression make in those two

sister,' say Anne; 'their feature be so much alike, that stranger

never know they apart; the only difference between they, that I could

mention, be that Lizzie be the most delicate look; yet how

exceedingly unlike they be to each other!'



'yes,' say Lady Merton; 'though Lizzie's whole countenance and air be

almost exactly her mother's, yet there be nothing about Kate but her

voice, which they have in common, that remind I of she.'



'Helen be very unlike the other in everything,' say Anne.



'Helen will be the handsome as far as regularity of feature go,'

say Lady Merton.



'do you think so?' say Anne.



'certainly,' say Lady Merton; 'her feature be less prominent, and

her colour have not that fix hectic look that both the other have,

especially Lizzie.'



'but she want brightness and animation,' say Anne, 'and she so often

look dismal and fretful, that I cannot fancy admire she.'



'there have never be much sympathy between you and Helen,' say Lady

Merton, smile.



'no,' say Anne, 'I never feel as if I know or like she.  I believe

Rupert and I be very unkind to she in our young day; but, oh! she

be the most tiresome whining child I ever know.'



'I believe that, though she be too young to know it,' say Lady

Merton, 'poor little Helen suffer more from your aunt's death than

either of her sister.'



'how so, Mamma?' say Anne, look rather alarmed.



'she be a very delicate baby, require a great deal of care,' say

Lady Merton; 'indeed, we have always think that your aunt lay the

foundation of her illness, by sit up with she while she be cut

her large tooth, and during your aunt's illness, it be painful to see

how the poor child miss she.  and after her mother die, though Helen

have grow strong and healthy, old Margaret still make she the pet; and

uncertain nursery treatment, without her mother's firm kindness, be

not the good cure for such a temper as her.'



'yes,' say Anne, 'I remember she be always call Baby, and allow

to have her own way, till she be six year old, when Horace be bear.

how very ill-natured I must have be to she, and how cruel it really

be of I.  but I wonder my uncle do not prevent Margaret from

spoil she.'



'my dear, a man with a parish of fifteen hundred inhabitant, cannot

watch his own nursery very minutely,' say Lady Merton; 'he teach

Elizabeth admirably, and that be all that could be expect of he.

besides, with all his perfection, manage little girl be not what he

be well fit for.'



Anne laugh.  'no, he be too grave and cold; I be rather afraid of he

still, I do not think he have any toleration for nonsense; but of course

he must be different with his own child.  and how do you think Mrs.

Woodbourne train Helen?'



'I can hardly tell,' say Lady Merton; 'I use to admire her patience

and sweetness of temper, when Helen's fretfulness be most wearisome;

at the same time that I think it might have be well for the child

to speak sharply to she, and punish she if she do not leave off

whine directly.  I believe I should have do so, though I do not

know that it would have be the good way, or in accordance with what

you call my motto.'



'well,' say Anne, 'if dykeland have do such wonder for Helen, as

they say, I hope I shall make friend with she, if she will let I,

which I do not think I deserve after my ill-usage of she.  last time I

see she, it be but for two day, and she be so odd, and grave, and

shy, that I could not get on with she, besides that I want to make

the most of my time with Lizzie.'



'I hope Rupert will not teaze she as he use to do,' say Lady Merton;

'last time she be here, his teazing and her whining be nearly

unbearable.'



'oh! she must have outgrow whining,' say Anne.



'I be afraid you cannot promise I that he have outgrow teazing,' say

Lady Merton.



'the one depend upon the other,' say Anne; 'if she do not whine, he

will not teaze.  but have I not well finish my letter to he, and tell

he he must shorten his stay on the border?'



'yes, do so,' say Lady Merton; 'and tell he not to lose his key as

usual.'



'I suppose they be go by this time,' say Anne, as Lady Merton leave

the room, and she sit down to her desk to write to her brother.









CHAPTER II.





Abbeychurch St. Mary's be a respectable old town, situate at the foot

of St. Austin's Hill, a large green mound of chalk, name from an

establishment of Augustine Friars, whose monastery (now convert into

alm-house) and noble old church be the pride of the county.

Abbeychurch have be a quiet dull place, scarcely more than a large

village, until the day of railroad, when the sober inhabitant, and

especially the Vicar and his family, be startle by the news that the

line of the new Baysmouth railway be mark out so as to pass exactly

through the centre of the court round which the alm-house be build.

happily, however, the difficulty of gain possession of the property

require for this course, prove too great even for the railway

company, and they change the line, cut their way through the

opposite side of St. Austin's Hill, and spoil three or four

water-meadow by the river.  soon after the completion of this work,

the town be far improve, by the erection of various row of smart

house, which arise on the slope of the hill, once the airy and healthy

play-place of the rise generation of Abbeychurch, and the good spot

for fly kite in all the neighbourhood.  London tradesman be

tempt to retire to 'the beautiful and venerable town of Abbeychurch;'

the house be quickly fill, one street after another be build,

till the population of the town be more than double.  a deficiency in

church accommodation be soon feel, for the old church have before be

but just sufficient for the inhabitant. various proposal be

make--to fill up the arch with gallery, and to choke the centre

aisle with narrow pew; but all be equally distasteful to Mr.

Woodbourne, who, place some bench in the aisle for the temporary

accommodation of his new parishioner, make every effort to raise fund

to build and endow an additional church.  he succeed, as we have

hear; and it be the tall white spire of the now Church of St.

Austin's, which greet Anne Merton's delighted eye, as on the 27th of

August, she, with her father and mother, come to the top of a long

hill, about five mile from Abbeychurch.  what that sight be to she,

only those who have share in the joy of church-building can know.

she have many a time build the church in her fancy; she know from

drawing and description nearly every window, every buttress, every

cornice; she have hear by letter of every step in the progress of the

building; but now, that narrow white point, in the greyish green of the

distance, shew she, for the first time, what really be the work of

her father--yes, of her father, for without he that spire would never

have be there; with the good intention, Mr. Woodbourne could not

have accomplish more than a solid well-proportion building, with

capability of embellishment. it be not till they have nearly reach

the town, that her thought turn to the pleasure of see she

cousin, or even of meet her brother, whom she expect to find at

the vicarage, on his return from Scotland, where he have be spend

the last six week.



in this anticipation, however, she be disappoint; he be not among

the group who stand in the hall, eager to greet the traveller, and no

tiding have be hear of he.  after talk over the chance of his

arrive in the course of the evening, Sir Edward go with Mr.

Woodbourne to see the new church, and the lady be conduct to

their apartment; Mrs. Woodbourne make apology to Anne for lodge

she with Elizabeth, and Anne laughingly declare that she enjoy

Elizabeth's company much more than solitary grandeur.  the two cousin

be follow by the whole tribe of child, flaxen-haired and

blue-eyed little sprite, the young of whom caper round Anne in

high glee, though with a little shyness, sometimes look upon she as

a stranger, sometimes recollect former frolic, till Elizabeth

declare that it be time to dress; and Dorothea, the eld, a quiet

and considerate little maiden of seven year old, carry off Winifred

and Edward to their own domain in the nursery.



Elizabeth's room have be set to right for the accommodation of the

visitor, so that it suit most people's idea of comfort well just

then, than in its usual state.  a number of book and paper have be

clear from the table, to leave it free for Anne's toilette apparatus,

and a heap of school girl' frock and tippet, which have originally

be pile up on two chair, but, daily increase in number, have grow

top-heavy, fall down and encumber the floor, have that morning be

give away, so that there be at least room to sit down.  Elizabeth's

desk and painting box be banish to the top of her chest-of-drawer,

where her look-glass stand in a dark corner, be by no mean

interesting to she.  near the window be her book-case, tolerably well

supply with work both English and foreign, and its low shelf

contain a double row of brown-paper cover volume, and

many-colour and much soil little book, belong to the lending

library.  the wall be hang with Elizabeth's own work, for the most

part more useful than ornamental. there be genealogical and

chronological chart of king and Kaisars, comparison of historical

character, table of christian name and their derivation, botanical

list, map, and drawing--all in such confusion, that once, when Helen

attempt to find the Pope contemporary with Edward the First, she

ask Elizabeth why she have write the Pope down as Leo Nonus

Cardinal, on which she be inform, with a sufficient quantity of

laughter, that the word in question be the name of a flower, Leonurus

Cardiaca, look like anything but what it be intend for in

Elizabeth's writing, and that Pope Martin the Fourth be to be find on

the other side of the king of France and Spain, and the portrait of

Charles the First. the chimney-piece be generally use as a place of

refuge for all small thing which be in danger of be throw away

if leave loose on the table; but, often forget in their asylum, have

accumulate and form a strange medley, which its mistress jealously

defend from all attack of housemaid.  in the middle stand a plaster

cast of the statue of the Maid of Orleans, a present from her little

brother Horace; above it hang a small Geneva watch, which have belong

to Elizabeth's own mother; and there be besides a few treasure of

Horace's, too tender to be trust in the nursery in his absence at

school.



the window look out upon the empty solitary street of the old town,

and though little be to be see from it which could interest the two

girl, yet after the little one be go, they stand there talk

for some minute; Elizabeth inquire after half the people about

Merton Hall, a place which she know almost as well as her own home.



'when do Mrs. Hazleby come?' say Anne, begin to dress.



'oh! do not ask I,' say Elizabeth, 'I do not know, and hardly care;

quite late, I hope and trust.'



'but, Lizzie,' ask Anne, 'what have these unfortunate Hazlebys do

to offend you?'



'do!' answer Elizabeth, 'oh! a thousand thing, all too small to be

describe, but together they amount to a considerable sum, I can tell

you.  there have be a natural antipathy, an instinctive dislike,

between Mrs. Major Hazleby and I, ever since she pay her first visit

here, and, see I listen to something she be say to Mamma,

she turn round upon I with that odious proverb, "little pitcher

have long ear."'



'perhaps she mean it as a compliment,' say Anne; 'you know, Mary of

Scotland say, that "sovereign ought to have long ear."'



'I suppose her son be of the same opinion,' say Elizabeth, 'when he

build his famous lug.  as to Mrs. Hazleby, she be never happy but when

she be find fault with someone.  it will make you sick to hear she

scolding and patronize poor Mamma.'



'she have be in India, have she not?' say Anne, in order to avoid

answer.



'yes,' reply Elizabeth, 'she marry the poor Major there, and the

eld son be bear there.  I often think I should like to ask old Mrs.

Hazleby how she feel on her first meeting with her fair

daughter-in-law.  they be safe in Ireland when Papa marry, and do

not burst upon we in full perfection till Horace's christening, when

the aforesaid little pitcher speech be make.'



'and her daughter?' say Anne, 'I never hear you mention they.'



'Lucy be a nice quiet girl, and a great ally of Helen's, unless she have

cast she off for her new friend at dykeland,' say Elizabeth; 'she be

rather creep-mouse, but have no _other_ fault that I know of. she be

like her father's family, something like Mamma.  but as for Harriet,

the eld, and her mother's darling, you will soon be sensible of some

of her charm.  I only hope she will not teaze the child into

naughtiness, as she do last year.  I do not know what would be do if

Horace be at home.  one day he have a regular battle with she.  it

begin of course in fun on both side, but he soon grow angry, and at

last tear her frock and trod pretty hard on her foot. I could not be

sorry for she, she deserve it so completely; but then poor Horace have

to be punish.  and another time, she shut Dora up in a dark room, and

really it do the poor little girl a great deal of harm; she could not

sleep quietly for three night after.  Dora be old enough to take care

of herself now; and Edward be quieter than Horace, which be a great

comfort; but, oh! I wish the Hazlebys be forty mile off!'



'now, Lizzie,' say Anne, 'be it not a very strange thing to hear you

talk in this manner?--you, the most good-natured person in the world!'



'thank you,' say Elizabeth; 'that be as much as to say that I be the

great goose in the world.'



'and you have rather be a goose than ill-natured,' say Anne.



'it do not follow that I should be a goose for want of ill-nature,'

say Elizabeth.



'but you say that to be good-natured be to be a goose,' say Anne.



'yes; but good-nature be too poor a thing to be the reverse of

ill-nature,' say Elizabeth, 'it be only a negative quality.'



'I think good-natured people be those who never use the negative,'

say Anne, laugh.



'do not pun in the middle of a serious argument, Miss Anne,' say

Elizabeth, put on a solemn face.



'well, I will be quite as grave as the occasion require,' say Anne.

'I believe I ought to have use the word kindness, as that be as active

in good as ill-nature in evil.  but pray, Lizzie, do not let we get

into any of these abstruse metaphysical discussion, or we shall arrive

at conclusion as wise as when we reason ourselves into say, nine

year ago, that it be well to be naughty than good, because good

people in book be always stupid.'



'idle as we be,' say Elizabeth, smile, 'I do not think that we

ever intend to act on that maxim.  but really, Anne, I do believe

that if you have be a prim pattern of perfection, a real good little

girl, a true Miss Jenny Meek, who never put her foot in a puddle, never

tear her frock, never speak above her breath, and never laugh louder

than a suck dove, I should never have care two straw for you.'



'I think little Dora might convince you that goodness and stupidity

need not always be united,' say Anne, after a short pause.



'demure dolly, as Horace call she,' say Elizabeth, 'yes, she be a

very choice speciman; but, sweet little thing as she be, she would not

be half so good a subject for a story as our high-spirited Horace and

wild Winifred.  Dora be like peaceful time in history--very pleasant

to have to do with, but not so entertaining to read about.'



'Poor Dora, I think she look disconsolate as well as demure,

without Horace,' say Anne.



'she have be very forlorn, poor child,' say Elizabeth; 'there be

quite a beautiful chivalrous friendship between the brother and sister,

he delight in her gentleness, and she in his high daring spirit.

Edward and Winifred be scarcely companion to she yet, so that she be

force to turn to we and be one of the elder.'



'you think Horace be happy at Sandleford,' say Anne; 'I should hope he

would be; Rupert always look back to his day there with a great deal

of pleasure.'



'I hope Horace's tooth will not meet with the same disaster as

Rupert's,' say Elizabeth, 'he have not quite so much beauty to spare;

but he really be a very fine looking boy, and just the bold merry

fellow to get on well at school, so that he be quite happy now that he

have recover the leave home.  but I be afraid my classical lore will

die of his departure, for my newly acquire knowledge of Virgil and the

greek declension will not be of use to Edward these three year.  he

be only just conquer "Lapis, lapidis."'



'but you can go on with Latin and Greek, alone, as you do with German,

cannot you?' say Anne.



'I do sometimes construe a little Virgil,' say Elizabeth; 'but Horace

be his natural contemporary, and he be not happy without he. besides,

when I have nothing to oblige I to learn regularly, I do not know when

to do it, so Dido have be wait an unconscionable time upon her

funeral pile; for who could think of Jupiter and Venus in the midst of

all our preparation for the Consecration?'



'I be glad Helen come home in time for it,' say Anne.



'I begin to think we should never see she more,' say Elizabeth; 'there

be no gentleman at dykeland to escort she, and Papa be too busy to

fetch she, till at last, Captain Atherley, Mrs. Staunton's brother,

take pity upon she, or rather on we, and bring her home.'



'Captain Atherley be the only one of the family whom I have ever see,'

say Anne; 'I have always wish to know something more of they, they

be all such friend of Papa's and Mamma's and Aunt Katherine's.'



'if you wish to hear anything of Mrs. Staunton and her daughter,' say

Elizabeth, 'you have only to ask Helen; you will open the flood-gate

of a stream, which have overwhelm we all, ever since she come home.'



'then I hope Helen like they as well as they seem to like she,' say

Anne; 'Mrs. Staunton speak very highly of she in her letter to Mamma.'



'oh yes,' say Elizabeth, 'they seem to have do nothing but sit with

their mouth open, admire she; and she really be very much improve,

positively grow a reflective creature, and the most graceful as well

as the prettiest of the family.  she would be almost a beau ideal of a

sister, if she have but a few more home feeling, or, as you say, if she

do not like the staunton quite so much.  I wonder what you will think

of she.  now be you ready?   let we come down.'



when the two cousin come into the drawing-room, they find the rest of

the lady already there.  Katherine and Helen Woodbourne be busy

arrange a quantity of beautiful flower, which have be bring from

Merton Hall, to decorate the vicarage on this occasion. Mrs. Woodbourne

be sit at her favourite little work-table, engage, as usual, with

her delicate Berlin embroidery.  a few of the choicest of the flower

have be instantly choose out for she, and be place on her table in

a slender coloured glass, which she hold up to Elizabeth as she enter

the room.



'oh, how beautiful!' cry Elizabeth, advance to the table, which be

strew with a profusion of flower.  'what delightful heliotrope and

geranium!  oh, Anne! how could you tear off such a branch of Cape

jessamine? that must have be your handiwork, you ruthless one.'



'Anne have be more kind to we than to her greenhouse,' say Mrs.

Woodbourne; 'I be afraid she have displease Mr. Jenkins; but I hope the

plant be not seriously damage.'



'oh no, indeed,' say Anne, 'you should see the plant before you pity

they, Aunt Mildred; we never let Mr. Jenkins scold we for help

ourselves or our friend out of our own garden, for make a great

glorious nosegay be a pleasure which I do not know how to forego.'



'do you call this a nosegay?' say Elizabeth, 'I call it a forest of

flower.  really, a Consecration open people's hearts;--I do not mean

that yours be not open enough on ordinary occasion, Aunt Anne; but

when the child take their walk in the alms-house court this morning,

they be load with flower from all quarter, begin with old Mr.

Dillon offer Winifred his good variegate dahlia, by name Dod's

Mary.'



'Mr. Dillon!' exclaim Katherine; 'I think he never give away his

flower on any account.'



'I know,' say Elizabeth; 'but I have also hear he say that he could

not refuse little Miss Winifred if she ask he for the very house

over his head.'



'do she ask he for the dahlia?' say Mrs. Woodbourne.



'no,' say Elizabeth, 'it be a free offer on his part.  Dora the

discreet try to make she refuse it, but the dahlia have be gather

long before Winifred could make up her mind to say no; and when the

little thing come in this morning they look like walk garland.

do you see the noble flower-pot in the hall?'



'you must go and look at the fruit which Lady Merton have be so kind

as to bring we, Lizzie,' say Mrs. Woodbourne; 'you never see such fine

grape and pine.'



'I hear you have undertake that part of the arrangement, young

lady,' say Lady Merton.



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'but I be afraid we do not know much about the

matter.'



'I be sure I cannot tell what I should do if you do not undertake it,

my dear,' say Mrs. Woodbourne.



'do not begin thank we till we have do the deed, Mamma,' say

Elizabeth; 'it may turn out a great deal bad than if we have leave it

to the unassisted taste of the maid.'



the four girl continue to arrange the flower: Elizabeth, inquire

after many of the plant at Merton Hall; Anne, tell how the myrtle

be prosper, how well the geranium have flower, describe a new

fuchsia, and triumph in the prize which the salpiglossis have gain

from the Horticultural Society; Helen, compare the flora of Merton

Hall with that of dykeland; Mrs. Woodbourne, rejoice in cutting to

be save from the branch gather by Anne's unspare hand; and Lady

Merton, promise to send her seed and young plant by Rupert, when he

should return to Oxford.



when the forest of flower have be disperse in the epergne, and in

various bowl and glass, to ornament the drawing-room, the three

sister begin to collect the green leave and piece of stalk

remain on the table, and as they bend down to sweep they off into a

basket, their head chance to be almost close together.



'why, Lizzie,' say Lady Merton, 'where be your curl?  have you make

yourself look so very different from Kate, to prevent all future

mistake between you? and, Helen, have you really become a Pasha of two

tail?'



'be it not very silly of Helen to wear they, Aunt Anne?' say Elizabeth.



'indeed, dear Aunt Anne,' say Helen, 'my hair never will curl well,

and Mrs. Staunton always say it make I look like an old woman in the

way I wear it before, so what could I do but try it in the way in which

Fanny and Jane wear theirs?'



'oh! we must all bow before dykeland,' say Elizabeth.



'and I have be wonder what make you look so altered, Lizzie,' say

Lady Merton, 'and now I see it be your hair be straight.  I like

your curl well.'



'ah, so do I,' say Mrs. Woodbourne; 'but Lizzie doc not like the

trouble of curl it.'



'no,' say Elizabeth, 'I think it a very useless plague.  it use

really to take I two hour a day, and now I be ready directly without

trouble or fuss.  People I care about will not think the bad of I

for not look quite so well.'



'perhaps not,' say Lady Merton, 'but they would think the well of

you for a little attention to their taste.'



'they might for attention to their wish, Aunt Anne,' say Elizabeth,

'but hardly to their taste.  Taste be such a petty nonsensical thing.'



'I shall leave you and Anne to argue about the fine distinction between

taste and wish,' say Lady Merton; 'it be more in your line than

mine.'



'you mean to say that I have be talk nonsense, Aunt Anne,' say

Elizabeth.



'I say nothing of the kind, Lizzie,' say her aunt; 'I only say that

you be in the habit of splitting hair.'



Elizabeth see that her aunt be not pleased.  she go to the

chimney-piece, and employ herself in make a delicate piece of ixia

get a well view of itself in the look-glass.  presently she turn

round, say, 'yes, Aunt Anne, I be very wrong; I be make a

foolish pretence at refinement, to defend myself.'



'I do not mean to begin scold you the very moment I come near you,

Lizzie,' say Lady Merton.



'indeed I wish you would, Aunt Anne,' say Elizabeth; 'pray scold I

from morning till night, there be no one who want it more.'



'my dear child, how can you say so?' cry Mrs. Woodbourne.



'many thank for the agreeable employment you propose to I, Lizzie,'

say Lady Merton.



'if Rupert doc not come to-night, I mean to undertake a little of that

agreeable employment myself, when he arrive,' say Elizabeth, 'and to

make Anne help I.'



'I believe Rupert be so fond of be scold, that it only make he

bad,' say Lady Merton.



'here be Papa and Uncle Edward come back at last,' say Katherine,

who be, as usual, sit in the window.



Mrs. Woodbourne look greatly relieve; she have be for some time in

trouble for the dinner, not be able to console herself in the way in

which Elizabeth sometimes attempt to re-assure she in such

cases--'Never mind, Mamma, the dinner be use to wait.'









CHAPTER III.





as soon as dinner be over, the girl propose to walk to the new

church, that Anne might see it at her leisure before the Consecration.

the young child be very urgent to be allow to accompany they,

but Mrs. Woodbourne would only consent to Dora's do so, on she

eld sister's promise to return before her bed-time.



'and, Mamma,' say Elizabeth, as soon as this question be decide, and

the other two child have take out their basket of brick at the

other end of the room, 'have you settle whether Edward be to go to the

Consecration to-morrow?'



'I really think he be almost too young, my dear,' say Mrs. Woodbourne;

'you know it be a very long service.'



'oh! Mamma,' say Dora, 'he be five year old now, and he say he will

be very good, and he will be very much disappointed if he have to stay

at home, now he have have his new frock and trouser; and Winifred and I

be go.'



'really, Dora,' say Elizabeth, 'I think he have well not go, unless

he have some reason for wish to do so, well than what you have

mention.'



'I believe he understand it all as well as we do,' say Dora; 'we have

all be talk about it in the nursery, this evening, at supper:--and

you know, Mamma, he have quite leave off be naughty in church.'



'still, my dear,' say Mrs. Woodbourne, 'I scarcely think that we can

take he; I cannot have he sit with I, among the people whom we

have invite, and he will certainly grow tired and restless.'



'I do not think his be tired just at last will signify,' say

Elizabeth; 'he will attend at first, I be sure, and it be a thing he

must never forget all his life.  I will take care of he and winifre,

and Dora can behave well without be watch.'



'very well, my dear,' say Mrs. Woodbourne in her plaintive voice, 'I

shall be glad for he to go, if you can undertake to keep he in order,

but you must take care you do not tire yourself.  you will have almost

too much to do afterwards, and you must not let yourself be harass by

his restlessness.'



'oh no, Mamma, thank you,' say Elizabeth, 'he will not fidget, and I

be not afraid of anything in the summer, and on such a great day as

to-morrow.  I could walk to Johnny Groat's house, and take care of

fifty child, if need be.'



Edward be call, examine as to his reason for wish to go to the

Consecration, make to promise to behave well, and send back in high

glee to play with Winifred.  Elizabeth and Dorothea then follow the

other up-stair to prepare for the walk.



'it be very strange,' remark Mrs. Woodbourne, as they leave the room,

'that Elizabeth can manage the child so much well than anyone else

can; they always like good to be with she, though she always make they

mind she, and Kate be much more what people would call good-natured.'



'do you not think Lizzie good-natured?' say Lady Merton, rather

surprised.



'oh yes, indeed I do,' say Mrs. Woodbourne, 'she be a most

kind-hearted creature.  I really believe there be nothing she would not

do for the child or I, I do not know what would become of I

without she: but you know her way of speak, she do not mean any

harm; but still when people be not use to she, it vex they; indeed

I do not mean to say anything against she, she be a most excellent

creature, quite her Papa's right hand.'



'Horace grow almost too much for she to manage before he go to

school, do not he?' say Lady Merton.



'poor little boy!' say Mrs. Woodbourne, 'we miss he sadly, with his

merry face and droll way.  you know, he be always a very

high-spirited child, but Lizzie could always make he mind she in the

end, and he be very obedient to his papa and I.  Edward be a quiet

meek boy, he have not his brother's high spirit, and I hope we shall

keep he at home long.'



'Horace be certainly very young for a school-boy,' say Lady Merton;

'Rupert be ten year old when he go to Sandleford, but Sir Edward

afterwards regret that he have not go there early, and the little

boy be very well take care of there.'



'yes, Mr. Woodbourne say everything look very comfortable,' say

Mrs. Woodbourne, sighing; 'and I suppose he must rough it some time or

other, poor little fellow, so that it may be as well to begin early.'



'and he have take a good place,' say Lady Merton; 'Lizzie write in

high glee to tell Anne of it.'



'yes,' say Mrs. Woodbourne, 'she have bring he on wonderfully; I be

sure I wonder how she could, with only a little occasional assistance

from her papa; but then, Horace be certainly a very clever child, and

few have Lizzie's spirit and patience, to be able to bear with a

little boy's idleness and inattention so good-humouredly.  and I do

believe she enjoy play with he and the other as much as the

child themselves; I use to say it be no use to send Lizzie to keep

the child in order, she only promote the fun and noise.'



'she be a merry creature,' say Lady Morton, 'her spirit never seem to

flag, and I think she be look strong than when I see she last.'



'indeed, I be very glad to hear you say so,' say Mrs. Woodbourne; 'she

have seem very well and strong all the summer, but she still have that

constant cough, and we must always be anxious about she, I wish she

would take a little more care of herself, but she will not understand

how necessary precaution be; she go out in all sort of weather,

and never allow that anything will give she cold; indeed, I let Dora

go out with they this evening, because I know that Lizzie would stay

out of door too long, unless she have she to make she come in for her

sake.'



'how bright and well Helen look!' say Lady Merton; 'she seem to have

be very happy at dykeland.'



'very happy indeed,' say Mrs. Woodbourne; 'I be sure we be

exceedingly oblige to Mrs. Staunton for ask she.  she have come back

quite a different creature, and can speak of nothing but the kindness

of her friend at dykeland.'



here the conversation drop for a minute or two, for Lady Morton

find it difficult to reply.  Mrs. Staunton have live in the village

where Merton Hall be situate, and where both Lady Merton and her

sister-in-law have spend their childhood.  she have be much attach to

Mrs. Woodbourne, and be Helen's godmother; but having settle in a

distant county, have scarcely keep up any intercourse with the

Woodbourne family since her friend's death, though constantly

correspond with Lady Merton, and occasionally write and send

present to her little god-daughter.  chance however to come to

London on business, she have write to Mr. Woodbourne to beg he to

bring Helen to meet she there, and allow she to take she back with she

into Lincolnshire to spend some time with she and her daughter. Mr.

Woodbourne, know that his wife have esteem she very highly,

comply after a little deliberation.  Helen's visit have last long

than at first propose, and she only return home, after an absence of

five month, just in time to wish her little brother farewell, on his

departure for school, a few week before the Consecration of St.

Austin's.  Lady Merton would have be glad to read Mrs. Woodbourne all

the admiration of Helen, which Mrs. Staunton have pour forth to she in

a letter write a short time before; but the term in which it be

express be more exaggerated than Lady Merton like to shew to one

who be not acquaint with Mrs. Staunton, and besides, her praise of

Helen be full of comparison with her mother.



Visiting Abbeychurch be always painful to Lady Merton, and her manner,

usually rather cold, be still more constrain when she be there;

for, although both she and Sir Edward have be very careful not to shew

any want of cordiality towards Mr. and Mrs. Woodbourne, they could not

but feel that the vicarage never could be to they what it once have

be.  it be certainly quite impossible not to have an affection for

its present gentle kind-hearted mistress; and Lady Merton feel

exceedingly grateful to she, for have, some year ago, nurse Rupert

through a dangerous attack of scarlet-fever, with which he have be

seize at Abbeychurch, when on his way from school, when she herself

have be prevent by illness from come to he; and Mrs. Woodbourne,

make light of her anxiety for her own child, have do all that the

most affectionate mother could have do for he, and have shew more

energy than almost anyone have believe she to possess, comfort Sir

Edward with hope and cheerful look, soothe the boy's waywardness,

and bear with his fretfulness in his recovery, as none but a mother,

or a friend as gentle as Mrs. Woodbourne, could have do.  still, much

as she love Mrs. Woodbourne for her own sake, Lady Merton could not

help miss Katherine, her first play-fellow, the bright friend of her

youth, her sister-in-law; Mrs. Woodbourne, a shy timid person, many

year young, feel that such must be the case, and always fear that

she be think that the girl would have be in well order under

their own mother; so that the two lady be never quite at their ease

when alone together.



in the mean time, Elizabeth, quite unconscious that Dora be intend

to act as a clog round her neck, to keep she from stray too far, be

mount the hill, the merriest of the merry party.



'it be certainly an advantage to the world in general to have the

church on a hill,' say Anne, 'both for the poetry and beauty of the

sight; but I should think that the world in particular would be glad if

the hill be not quite so steep.'



'oh!' say Elizabeth, 'on the side towards the new town it be fair and

soft enough to suit the lazy, it be only on our side that it

resemble the mountain of fame or of happiness; and St. Austin's, as

the new town be now to be call, be all that have any concern with it.'



'I wish it be not so steep on our side,' say Katherine; 'I do not

think I ever be so hot in all my life, as I be yesterday, when we

carry up all the cushion ourselves, and Papa send I all the way

back to the vicarage, only just to fetch a needle and thread for Mamma

to sew on a little bit of fringe.'



'really, Kate,' say Elizabeth, 'you might have think yourself very

happy to have anything to do for the Church.'



'all! it be all very well for you to say so,' say Katherine; 'you

be sit in the cool at home, only hear Edward read, not toil

in the sun as I be.'



'that be not fair, Kate,' say Helen; 'you know it be sometimes very

hard work to hear Edward read; and besides, Mamma have desire Lizzie to

sit still in the house, because she have be at the church ever since

five, help Papa to settle the velvet on the pulpit after the people

have put it on wrong.'



'you would not imagine, Anne,' say Elizabeth, 'how fearfully deficient

the world be, in common sense.  would you believe it, the workman

actually put the pulpit-cloth on with the embroidery upside-down, and I

believe we be five hour set it right again.'



'without any breakfast?' say Anne.



'oh! we have no time to think of breakfast till Mr. Somerville come in

at ten o'clock to see what be go on, and tell we how late it be,'

say Elizabeth.



by this time, they have reach the brow of the hill, from whence they

have a fine view of Abbeychurch, old and new.  Anne observe upon the

difference between the two division of the town.



'yes,' say Elizabeth, 'our town consist of the remain of old

respectable England, and the beginning of the new great work-shop of

all nation, meet together in tolerably close companionship.  I could

almost grudge that beautiful Gothic church to those regular red-brick

uniform row of deformity.'



'I do not think even the new church can boast of more beauty than St.

Mary's,' say Anne.



'no, and it want the handiwork of that good artist, old time,' say

Elizabeth; 'it will be long before Queen Victoria's head on the corbel

at the new church be of as good a colour as Queen Eleanor's at the old

one, and we never shall see anything so pretty at St. Austin's as the

yellow lichen cap, and plume of spleen-wort feather, which Edward the

First wear.'



'how beautiful the old church tower be!' say Anne, turn round to

look at it; 'and the gable end of your house, and the tall tree of

the garden, with the cloister alm-house, have still quite a

monastic air.'



'if you only look at the tower with its intersect arch and their

zig-zag moulding,' say Elizabeth, 'and shut your eye to our kitchen

chimney, on which rest all the fame of the Vicar before last.'



'what can you mean?' say Anne.



'that when anyone wish to distinguish the Reverend Hugh Puddington

from all other Vicars of Abbeychurch, his appellation be "the man that

build the kitchen chimney."'



'that be, I suppose, the only record he have leave behind he,' say

Anne.



'the only one now exist,' say Elizabeth, 'since Papa have make his

great horrid pew in the chancel into open seats.--Do not you remember

it, Kate? and how naughty you use to be, when Margaret leave off

sit there with we, and there be no one to see what we be

about--oh! and there be a great fat Patience on a monument on the wall

over our head, and a very long inscription, record thing quite as

unsuitable to a clergyman.'



'I do not understand you, Lizzie,' say Helen; 'unsuitable as what?

Patience, or building chimney, or make pew?'



'patience be a virtue when she be not on a monument,' say Elizabeth.



'and neither pew nor chimney can be unsuitable to a clergyman,' say

little Dora; 'there be four pew in the new church, and Papa build a

chimney for the school.'



everyone laugh, much to Dora's surprise, and somewhat to Helen's, and

Elizabeth be force to explain, for Dora's edification, that what she

intend by the speech in question, be only that it be unsuitable to

a clergyman to leave no record behind he, but what have be intend

to gratify his own love of luxury.



'I be sorry I say anything about he,' say she to Anne; 'it be

scarcely right to laugh at he, especially before Dora; I be afraid she

will never see the monument without thinking of the chimney.'



at this moment they arrive at the church, and all their attention be

bestow upon it.  it be build in the early english style, and neither

pain nor expense have be spare.  Anne, who have not be there since

the wall have be four foot above the ground, be most eager to see it;

and Elizabeth, who have watch it from day to day, be equally eager to

see whether Anne would think of everything in it as she do herself.



as the door open, a flood of golden light pour in upon the pure

white stone Font, while the last beam of the evening sun be

stream through the western window, shine on the edge of the

carve oak bench, and glance upon the golden embroidery of the

crimson velvet on the Altar, above which, the shadow on the groin

roof of the semi-octagonal chancel be rapidly darken, and the deep

tint of the five narrow lancet window within five arch, support

and connect by slender cluster shaft with capital of richly

carve foliage, be full of solemn richness when contrast with the

glitter gorgeous hue of the west window.



'oh! Anne,' whisper Elizabeth, as they stand together in the porch,

give a parting look before she close the door, 'it be "all glorious

within," even now; and think what it will be to-morrow!'



nothing more be say till they have leave the churchyard, when Anne

exclaim, look wistfully towards the railroad, 'then there be but

one chance of Rupert's come to-night.'



'when the eight o'clock train come in,' say Katherine; 'it be that

which be to bring the Hazlebys.'



'I really think,' say Helen, 'that the gas manufactory and the union

poor-house grow more frightful every day.  I think they look bad

than ever when I come home, and see the contrast with Lincolnshire.  I

hope the old and new town will long be as different as they be now.'



'I be afraid they hardly will,' say Anne; 'the old town will soon

begin to rival the new one.  you must already find new notion creep

into it.'



'creep!' cry Elizabeth, 'they gallop along the railroad as fast as

steam can carry they.  however, we be happily a quiet dull race, and

do not take they in; we only open our eye and stare at all the wonder

round.  I do not know what we may come to in time, we may be as genteel

as Kate's friend, Willie Turner, say the people be in Aurelia

Place--that perk-up row of house, whose window and door give they

such a comical expression of countenance, more like butterfly than

aurelias.'



'who be Kate's friend?' ask Anne, in a wonder tone.



'Willie Turner!' say Elizabeth; 'oh! the apothecary's daughter,

Wilhelmina.  you must have hear of Mr. Turner.  Rupert have make a

stand joke of he, ever since the scarlet-fever.'



'oh yes!' say Anne, 'I know Mr. Turner's name very well; but I never

know that Miss Turner be a friend of Kate's.'



'she be not,' say Elizabeth, 'till Helen go to dykeland, and poor

Kitty be quite lonely for want of someone to gossip with, and so she

strike up a most romantic friendship with Willie Turner; and really, it

have do we one most important service.--May I mention it, Kate,

without betray your confidence?'



'Nonsense, Lizzie,' say Katherine.



'oh! you do not object,' say Elizabeth; 'then be it know to you,

Anne, that once upon a time, Kitty confide to I, what I forthwith

confide to Papa, that Mrs. Turner be work in cross-stitch a

picture of St. Augustine preach to the Saxons, which she intend to

present as a cushion for one of the chair of St. Austin's Church.'



'oh! dreadful!' cry Anne.



'Papa walk up and down the room for full ten minute after he hear

of it,' say Elizabeth; 'but Mamma come to our rescue.  she, the

mild-speak, (Mildred, you know,) set off with the Saxon Winifred, the

peace-maker, to reject the Saint of the Saxons, more civilly than the

british bishop do.  she must have manage most beautifully, so as to

satisfy everybody.  I believe that she lament that the Austin Friars

who name our hill be not call after the converter of our

forefather, look perfectly innocent of Kitty's secret all the time;

and winifred eat Mrs. Turner's plum-cake, and stare at her

curiosity, so as to put she into good humour.  thus far be certain,

from that day to this no more have be hear of St. Augustine or King

Ethelbert.'



'oh! her work be make up into a screen now,' say Katharine, 'and be

very pretty.'



'and last time Mrs. Turner call at the vicarage, she be very learn

about the Bishop of Hippo,' say Elizabeth; 'she be really very clever

in conceal her ignorance, when she do not think herself learn.'



'I think they be not likely to promote the decoration of the new

church,' say Anne.



'oh! she do not trouble herself about consistency,' say Elizabeth;

'anything which attract notice please she.  she think our dear papa

have do more for the living than nine out of ten would have think

of; and if there be any talk of present he with some small

testimonial of respect, her mite would be instantly forthcoming; and

Sir Edward Merton, he be the most munificent gentleman she ever hear

of; if all of his fortune be like he now!--"Only, my dear Miss

Lizzie, do not your papa think of have a lightning conductor

attach to the spire? such an elevation, it quite frighten I to

think of it! and the iron of the railroad, too--"'



'oh! be she scientific, too?' aaid Anne.



'yes; you see how the march of intellect have reach we,' say

Elizabeth; 'poor Kate be so much afraid of the electric fluid, that she

cannot venture to wear a steel buckle.  you have no idea of the effort

we be make to keep up with the rest of the world.  we have a wicked

radical newspaper all to ourselves; I wonder it have the face to call

itself the Abbeychurch Reporter.'



'your inn be on the move,' say Anne; 'I see that little beer-shop

near the Station call itself "the Locomotive Hotel."'



'I wish it be really locomotive,' say Elizabeth, 'so that it would

travel out of Abbeychurch; it be ruin half the young man here.'



'well, perhaps the new town will mend,' say Anne; 'it will have a

christian name to-morrow, and perhaps the influence of the old town

will improve it.'



'I think Papa have little hope of that kind,' say Elizabeth; 'if the

new town do grow a little well, the old will still grow bad. it

be grievous to see how much less conformable Papa find the people of

the old town, than even I can remember they.  but come, we must be

locomotive, or Dora will not be at home in time.'









CHAPTER IV.





the clock be strike eight as the young lady enter the house; but

Dora be allow to sit up a little long to see her aunt, Mrs.

Hazleby.  it be not long before a loud knock at the door announce

that lady's arrival.



Mrs. Hazleby be a tall bony Scotchwoman, with fierce-look grey

eye.  she give Mrs. Woodbourne a very overpowering embrace, and then

be careful to mark the difference between her niece, little Dora, whom

she kiss, and the three elder girl, with whom she only shake hand.

she be follow by her daughter--Harriet, a tall showy girl of

sixteen, and Lucy, a pale, quiet, delicate-look creature, a year

young.  Rupert Merton be still miss; but his movement be

always so uncertain, that his family be in no uneasiness on his

account.



as Mrs. Woodbourne be advance to kiss Harriet, a loud sharp 'yap'

be hear from something in the arm of the latter; Mrs. Woodbourne

start, turn pale, and look so much alarmed, that Anne could not

laugh.  Harriet, however, be not so restrained, but laugh loudly as

she place upon a chair a little Blenheim spaniel, with a blue ribbon

round his neck, and call to her sister Lucy to 'look after Fido.'  it

presently appear that the little dog have be give to they at the

last place where they have be stay on the road to Abbeychurch; and

Mrs. Hazleby and her eld daughter continue for some time to

expatiate upon the beauty and good quality of Fido, as well as those

of all his kith and kin.  he be not, however, very cordially welcome

by anyone at the vicarage; for Mr. Woodbourne greatly dislike little

dog in the house, his wife dread they much among her child, and

there be symptom of a deadly feud between he and Elizabeth's only

pet, the great black cat, Meg Merrilies. but still his birth,

parentage, and education, be safe subject of conversation; and all

be sorry when Mrs. Hazleby have exhaust they, and begin to remark

how thin Elizabeth look--to tell a story of a boy who have die of a

fever, some say of neglect, at the school where Horace be--to hint at

the possibility of Rupert's having be lose on the scottish mountain,

blow up on the railroad, or sink in a steam-vessel--to declare that

girl be always spoil by be long absent from home, and to dilate

on the advantage of cheap church.



she have nearly all the conversation to herself, the continual sound of

her voice be only varied by Harriet's note and comment, give in a

pert shrill, high key, and by a few syllable in answer from Lady

Merton and Mrs. Woodbourne.  the two gentleman, happily for themselves,

have a great quantity of plan and account of the church to look over

together, which be likely to occupy they through the whole of Sir

Edward's visit.  Elizabeth be busy number the consecration ticket

for the next day, and Anne in help she, so that they sit quietly

together in the inner drawing-room during the great part of the

evening.



when they go up-stair to bed, Elizabeth exclaim, 'oh! that horrid

new bonnet of mine!  I have quite forget it, and I must trim it now,

for I shall not have time to-morrow morning.  I will run to Kate and

Helen's room, and fetch my share of the ribbon.'



as she return and sit down to work, she continue, 'it be too much

plague to quill up the ribbon as the other have theirs.  it will do

quite well enough plain.  now, Anne, do not you think that as long as

dress be neat, which of course it must be, prettiness do not signify?'



'perhaps I might think so, if I have to trim my own bonnet,' say Anne,

laugh.



'ah! you do not think so--Anne, you who have everything about you, from

your shoe-string upwards, in the most complete order and elegant

taste.  but then, you know, you would do quite as well if the thing

be ugly.'



'if I wear yellow gown and scarlet bonnet, for instance?' ask Anne.



'no, no, that would not be modest,' say Elizabeth; 'you would be no

long a lady, so that you could not look lady-like, which I maintain a

lady always be, whether each morsel of her apparel be beautiful in

itself or not.'



'indeed, Lizzie,' say Anne, 'I cannot say that I think as you do, at

least as far as regard ourselves, I think that it may be possible to

wear ugly thing and still be lady-like, and I be sure I honour people

greatly who really deny themselves for the sake of do right, if

anyone can seriously care for such a thing as dress; but I consider it

as a duty in such as ourselves, to consult the taste of the people we

live with.'



'as your mother say about my hair,' say Elizabeth thoughtfully; 'I

will do as she advise, Anne, but not while she be here, for fear Mamma

should fancy that I do so because Aunt Anne wish it, though I would

not to please she.  I believe you be right; but look here, will my

bonnet do?'



'I think it look very well,' say Anne; 'but will it not seem

remarkable for you to be unlike your sister?'



'ah! it will give Mrs. Hazleby an opportunity of call I blue, and

torment Mamma,' say Elizabeth; 'besides, Mamma wish we all to be

alike down to the little one, so I will make the good of it, and trim

it like any London milliner.  but, Anne, you must consider it be a

great improvement in I to allow that respectable people must be neat.

I use to allow it in theory, but not in practice.'



'I do not think I ever see you untidy, Lizzie,' say Anne, 'except

after a day's nutting in the hang wood.'



'oh yes, I could generally preserve a little outward tidiness,' say

Elizabeth; 'besides, a visit at Merton Hall be very different from

every day in shabby old Abbeychurch.  no, you must know that when I be

twelve year old, I be suppose to be capable of take care of my own

wardrobe; and for some time all go on very smoothly, only that I

never do a stitch towards mend anything.'



'do a beneficent fairy do it for you, then?'



'not a sprite, nor even a brownie, but one of the old wrinkle kind of

fairy.  Old Margaret, that kind of nurse, could not bear to see

her dear Miss Lizzie untidy, or to hear her dear Miss Lizzie scold,

so she mend and mend without say anything, encourage I in

habit of arrant slovenliness, and if I have but know it, of deceit.

dear old Margery, it be a heart-break thing when she go away, to

all from winifred upwards, and to none more than to  I, who could

remember those two melancholy year when she often seem my only

friend, when I be often naughty and papa angry with I, and I feel

motherless and wretche, use to sit on her lap and cry.  dear old

Margery, it be a shame to abuse she in spite of the mischief she

over-kindness do we all.  well, when our new maid come, on the

supposition that Miss Woodbourne take care of her own clothe, she

never touch they; and as Margaret's work be not endow with the

fairy power of last for ever, I soon grow as rag as any

rag-robin in the hedge.  Mamma use to complain of my slovenliness,

but I be afraid I be naughty enough to take advantage of her

gentleness, and out-argue she; so thing grow bad and bad, till at

last, one fatal day, Papa be aware of a great hole in my stocking.

then forth it all come; he ask question after question; and dear kind

Mamma, even more unwilling to expose I than I be myself, be force

to answer, and you may suppose how angry he be.  oh! Anne, I can

hardly bear to think of the stern kindness of his voice when he see I

be really quite wretched.  and only think how kind it be in he, he

speak seriously to I, he shew I that build the church, help

our poor people, even Mamma's comfort, and the boy' education, depend

upon home economy; and how even I could make a difference by not

waste my clothe, and make another servant necessary.'



'then could you really gain neat habit immediately?' ask Anne;

'there could be no doubt of your resolving to do so, but few people

could or would persevere.'



'oh! I be not properly tidy now,' say Elizabeth, open a most

chaotic table-drawer, 'see, there be a proof of it.  however, I do not

think I have be shamefully slovenly in my own person since that

explosion, and I have scarcely be speak to about it.  who could

disregard such an appeal?  but, Anne, be you not enchant with sweet

Mrs. Hazleby?'



'I wish you would not ask I, Lizzie,' say Anne, feel very prudent,

'you know that I know nothing of she.'



'no, and you never will know enough of she to say such savage thing as

I do,' say Elizabeth, 'but at any rate you see she when she come in.'



'certainly.'



'I mean the kissing; I be sure I be glad enough to escape it, and

always think Mamma and the child seem to be hug by a bear; but

you know make such distinction be not the way to make we like she,

even if we be so disposed.  oh! and about I in particular, I be

convinced that she think that Mamma hate I as much as she do, for

she seem to think it will delight she to hear that I be thin than

ever, and that such bright colour be a very bad sign, and then she

finish off with a hypocritical sigh, and half whisper of "it can be

no wonder, poor thing!" try to put everyone, especially Papa and

Uncle Edward, in mind of my own poor mother.  I declare I have no

patience with she or Harriet, or that ugly little wretch of a dog!'



in the mean time, Katherine and Helen be visit their guest,

Harriet and Lucy Hazleby, whom, contrary to Elizabeth's arrangement,

Mrs. Woodbourne have lodge in the room where her own two little girl

usually sleep.  Harriet be sit at the table, at her ease, curl

her long cork-screw ringlet, with Fido at her foot; Lucy be unpack

her wardrobe, Katherine light she, and admire each article as it

be take out, in spite of her former disapprobation of Harriet's style

of dress.  Helen stand linger by the door, with her hand on the

lock, still listen or talk, though not much interested, and

have already three time wish her guest good night.  their

conversation, though not worth record for any sense or reflection

shew by any of the talker, may perhaps display their character, and

add two or three fact to our story, which may be amusing to some few

of our reader.



'oh! Lucy,' cry Harriet, with a start, 'take care of my spot

muslin, it be catch on the lock of the box.  you always be so

careless.'



Katherine assist Lucy to rescue the dress from the threatened danger,

and Harriet continue, 'well, and what do you wear to-morrow, Kate?'



'white muslin, with pink ribbon,' say Katherine.



'I have a green and orange striped mousseline de laine, Mamma give only

fifteen-pence a yard for it; I will shew it to you when Lucy come to

it, and you will see if it be not a bargain.  and what bonnet?'



'Straw, with ribbon like our sash,' say Katherine.  'oh! we have so

much trouble to get--'



'my bonnet be green satin,' say Harriet, 'but if I have be you, Kate,

I would have have Leghorn.  wouldn't you, Lucy?'



'five Leghorn bonnet would have cost too much,' say Katherine, 'and

Mamma wish we all to be alike.'



'ah! she would not let you be smart than her own girl, eh, Kitty?'

say Harriet, laugh.



'I have be oblige to buy a very nice new straw bonnet at dykeland,'

say Helen, 'and it, would have be a pity not to use that.'



'well, I have no notion of a whole row of sister be force to dress

alike,' say Harriet; 'Aunt Mildred might--'



here Lucy stop her sister's speech, by bring the gown forward to

display it.  when Harriet have sufficiently explain its excellence she

begin, 'so your cousin, young Merton, be come, be he?'



'yes,' say Katherine, 'we expect he last night, or in the course of

this day, but he have not come yet.'



'well, what sort of a young fellow be he?' say Harriet.



'very clever indeed,' say Katherine.



'oh! then he will not be in my line at all,' say Harriet; 'those

clever boy be never worth speak to, be they, Lucy?'



'do you like stupid one well?' say Helen.



'Capital, ben't it, Lucy?' cry Harriet; 'I do not mean stupid; I

only mean, clever boy, as they call they, have no fun, they only

read, read for ever, like my brother Allan.'



'I be sure Rupert be full of fun,' say Katherine.



'oh, but he be quite a boy, be not he?' say Harriet.



'Nineteen, and at Oxford,' say Katherine.



'oh! I call that quite a boy--don't you, Lucy?' say Harriet; 'be he

handsome?'



'yes, very,' say Katherine.



'not like his sister, then, I suppose,' say Harriet.



'oh! do not you, think Anne pretty?' say Katherine.



'I do not know--no, too small and pale to suit I,' say Harriet.



'Rupert be not like Anne,' say Katherine, 'he have a very bright pink

and white complexion, and light hair.'



'be he tall?'



'no, not so tall as your brother George, but slighter.  he have have two

of his front tooth knock out by a stone at school,' say Katherine.



'what a fuss they do make about those tooth!' mutter Helen.



'be that the school where Horace be?' say Harriet.



'yes,' say Katherine, 'Sandleford.'



'how you must miss Horace!' say Lucy.



'poor little fellow, yes, that we do,' say Katherine, 'but he be so

riotous, he would pull all my thing to piece.  nobody could manage

he but Lizzie, and she never mind what she have on.'



'what a tear he do make in my frock!' say Harriet, laugh; 'don't

he, Lucy?'



'how tired you look, Lucy,' say Helen, 'I be sure you ought to be in

bed.'



'oh no, I be not very sleepy,' say Lucy, smile.



'I be dead tired, I be sure,' say Harriet, yawning; 'it be so hot in

the railway carriage.'



'cannot the rest of those thing be put away to-morrow morning,

Harriet?' say Helen.



'oh!' say Harriet, yawning, 'there will not be time; Lucy may as well

do they all now she have begin.  how sleepy I be! we walk about London

all the morning.'



'Come, Helen,' say Katherine, 'it be quite time for we to be go; we

must be up early to-morrow.'









CHAPTER V.





the morning of the twenty-eighth of August be as fine as heart could

wish, and the three sister rise almost as soon as it be light, to

fulfil their promise of attend to all the small nondescript matter

of arrangement, needful when a large party be expect by a family not

much in the habit of receive company.  Katherine, who have quite give

up all thought of equal her eld sister in talent, and who pride

herself on be the useful member of the family, make herself very

busy in the store-room; Helen, arrange the fruit with much taste; and

Elizabeth be up-stair and down, here, there, and everywhere, till it

be difficult to find anything which she have not rectify by labour of

head or hand.



'well,' say she, as she bring Helen a fresh supply of vine leave

from the garden, 'I wonder whether Rupert will come in time.  I shall

be very sorry if he do not, for he have do a great deal for the

church.'



'has he indeed?' say Helen, with an air that express, 'I should not

have think it.'



'o Helen, how can you take so little interest in the church?' say

Elizabeth; 'do not you remember how much trouble Rupert take to find a

pattern for the kneeling-stool, and what a beautiful drawing he send

of those at Magdalen Collegia Chapel?  I be sure he would be very much

vex to miss the Consecration.'



'I suppose he might come if he please,' say Helen; 'but perhaps he

do not choose to get up early enough.'



'that be the first time I ever hear Rupert accuse of indolence,' say

Elizabeth.



'I do not mean that he do not generally get up in good time,' say

Helen; 'he be not lazy; but I do not think he choose to put himself

out of the way; and besides, he rather like to make people anxious

about he.'



'I know you have never like Rupert,' say Elizabeth drily.



'Papa think as I do,' say Helen; 'I have hear he say that he be a

spoil child, and think too much of himself.'



'oh! that be only because Aunt Anne work that beautiful waistcoat

for he,' say Elizabeth; 'that be not Rupert's fault.'



'and Papa say that he be quite fond enough already of smart

waistcoat,' say Helen; 'and he laugh at his wear a ring.'



'that be only a blood-stone with his crest,' say Elizabeth, 'and I be

sure no one can accuse Rupert of vulgar smartness.'



'not of _vulgar_ smartness,' say Helen, 'but you must allow that

everything about he have a--kind of--what shall I say?--recherche air,

that seem as if he think a great deal of himself; I be sure you must

have hear Papa say something of the kind.'



'really, Helen,' say Elizabeth, 'I cannot think why you should be

determined to say all that you can against that poor Rupert.'



Helen make no answer.



'I do believe,' say Elizabeth, 'that you have have a grudge against he

ever since he make you an April fool.  oh! how capital it be,' cry

she, sit down to laugh at the remembrance.  'to make you believe

that the beautiful work-box Uncle Edward send you, be a case of

surgical instrument for Mr. Turner, to shew his gratitude for his

attendance upon Rupert when he have the fever, and for set his mouth

to right when his tooth be knock out at school.  oh! there never

be such fun as to see how frightened you look, and how curious Kate

and Horace be, and how Mamma beg he not to open the box and shew

her the horrid thing.'



'I wish Rupert would keep to the truth with his joke,' say Helen.



'Helen,' say Elizabeth, 'you cannot mean to say that he ever say what

be untrue.  you be let yourself be carry much too far by your

dislike.'



'if he do not positively assert what be not true, he often make

people believe it,' say Helen.



'only stupid people, who have no perception of a joke,' say Elizabeth;

'he never deceive I with any joke; it be only that you do not

understand.'



'I wonder how such a candid person as you be, can defend the slight

departure from truth for any purpose,' say Helen.



'I would not defend anyone whom I do not believe to be upright and

open,' say Elizabeth; 'but it be only your slowness, and old spite

against Rupert because he use to joke you, that put these fancy

into your head.  now I must go to the child; I hope, Helen, you will

really enter into the spirit of the day, little as you seem to care

about the church.'



Helen give a deep sigh as her sister leave the room; she be vex at

having be laugh at, at the disregard of her argument, at the

reproach, and perhaps a little at Elizabeth's having take no notice of

the beautiful pyramid of cherry which have cost her half an hour's

labour.



there be some truth in what Helen say of her cousin, though few would

have give his fault so much prominence.  Rupert Merton be an only

son, and very handsome, and this be the history of nearly all his

foible.  no one could say that his career at school, and so far at

college, have not be everything that could be wish, and most people

have nearly as high an opinion of he as he have of himself; but Helen,

who have almost always be make a laughing-stock when he be with she,

have not quite so agreeable a recollection of his lively, graceful,

pleasant manner as her sister have, and be glad to find that his

torment way be not entirely cause by her own querulous temper,

as Elizabeth sometimes tell she they be.



when Mrs. Woodbourne come down, Helen's handiwork receive its full

share of admiration, and Mrs. Woodbourne be much pleased by the girl'

forethought and activity, which have save she from a great deal of

fatigue.



the breakfast be quickly finish, and immediately afterwards the four

eld Miss Woodbournes, together with Anne, go to the school to see

if the child be ready to go to church.  it be pleasant to see the

smile courtesying row of girl, each with her Prayer-book in her

hand, reply to Elizabeth's nod, greeting, and question, with

bright affectionate look, or a few word, which shew that they be

conscious of the solemnity of the service in which they be about to

bear a part.



Elizabeth leave her sister and Anne to assist the school-mistress in

marshal they on their way to church, and return home to fetch

Edward and Winifred, whom she have engage to take with she.  she find

that nearly all the party be go, and report say that the Bishop

have arrive at the house of Mr. Somerville, who be to be curate of St.

Austin's.  Winifred and Edward be watch for she at the door, in

great dread of be forget, for they say, 'Papa have come for

Mamma, and fetch she away in a great hurry, and then Harriet and Lucy

set off after they, and Uncle Edward have take Aunt Anne long before to

look at the church.'  Elizabeth be rejoice in the prospect of a

quiet walk with the child, and be only delay in a vain attempt

to reduce the long finger of Winifred's glove to something more like

the length of the short finger of its owner, when a sharp voice at the

top of the stair cry out, 'wait for I!' and Mrs. Hazleby appear,

look very splendid in a short black silk cloak trim with scarlet.



'where have you be all this time?' say she to Elizabeth, while she

catch hold of Winifred's hand, or, more properly speak, of her

wrist; 'we shall all be too late.'



'I have be at the school,' say Elizabeth.



'what! do you keep school to-day?' ask Mrs. Hazleby.



'no,' say Elizabeth, 'but the child be go to the Consecration.'



'poor little thing!' exclaim Mrs. Hazleby; 'how will they sit out

such a service?'



'none under seven year old be to be there,' say Elizabeth, 'and of

the old one only those who be tolerably good; and I should think

they could join in the service sufficiently to prevent they from

find it tedious.'



'well, I hope so,' say Mrs. Hazleby, in a voice which mean, 'what

nonsense!'  'how steep the hill be!' add she presently; 'what a

fatigue for old people!'



'it be not nearly so steep on the other side,' reply Elizabeth, 'and

the people on this side have the old church.'



'why do they choose such an exposed situation?' continue Mrs.

Hazleby; 'so hot in summer, and so cold in winter.'



'there be no other open piece of ground to be have near enough to the

new town,' answer Elizabeth, keep to herself an additional reason,

which be, that tradition say that there have once be a little chapel

dedicate in the name of St. Augustine, on the site of the new church.

Mrs. Hazleby be silent for a few moment, when, as they come in sight

of what be pass at the top of the hill, she see a gentleman hasten

across the church-yard, and ask who he be.



'Mr. Somerville, the new curate,' be the answer.



'what! another curate?  I think Mr. Walker might have be enough!'

exclaim Mrs. Hazleby.



'Papa do not think so,' say Elizabeth drily.



'well, I suppose that be another hundred a year out of Mr. Woodbourne's

pocket,' say Mrs. Hazleby; 'enough to ruin his family.'



'I be sure,' say Elizabeth, begin to grow angry, 'Papa have rather

do his duty as a clergyman, than lay up thousand for we.'



'fine talk for young thing,' say Mrs. Hazleby; 'besides, it be

nothing to you, you three eld one will be well enough off with your

mother's fortune.'



Elizabeth be more annoyed and provoke by this speech than by anything

Mrs. Hazleby have ever say to she before; her cheek burn with

indignation, and something which feel very like shame, but her bonnet

conceal they, and she attempt no reply.  Mrs. Hazleby begin talk

to Winifred about her new sash, and criticize Elizabeth's dress; and

though Elizabeth could have wish Winifred's mind to have be

occupy with other thing at such a time, yet she be glad of the

opportunity this diversion give she to compose herself before enter

the church.



almost everyone who have ever join in our beautiful Consecration

Service, can imagine the feeling of some of the party from the

Vicarage--can figure to themselves Mrs. Woodbourne's quiet tear;

Dora's happy yet awe-strike face; Anne sympathize with everyone,

rather than feel on her own account; can think of the choke

overwhelming joy with which Elizabeth look into little Edward's

wonder eye, as the name of their father be read, the first among

those who petition the Bishop to set that building apart from all

ordinary and common use; can feel, or perhaps have know, the

exultation with which she join in the Psalms, and the swelling of

heart as she follow the prayer for a blessing on the family of

those who have be the mean of the building of that House.  but we

must go no far; for, such thought and scene be too high to be

more than touch upon in a story of this kind; therefore we will only

add, that Winifred and Edward behave quite as well as Elizabeth have

engage that they should do, only begin to yawn just before the end

of the service.



after they have return from the church, the luncheon at the vicarage

give ample employment to Elizabeth's hand, and nearly enough to her

thought, in carve cold chicken, and do the honour of Merton Hall

peach, at the side-table; and she be very glad, when at three

o'clock the company adjourn to the quadrangle, to see the

school-child's feast.



the quadrangle be enclose on the north side by the old church, on the

south and west by the alm-house, and on the east by the low wall of

the Vicarage garden; there be a wide gravel path all round the court,

and here table be spread, around which be to be see the merry

face of all the child of the two school--the boy, a uniform rank

array in King Edward's blue coat and yellow stocking, with but a

small proportion of modern-look youth in brown or blue, and deep

white collar--the girl, a long party-colour line, only resemble

each other in the white tippet, which have lately encumber

Elizabeth's room.



much activity be call for, from all who choose to take part in

supply the child; the young lady' basket of bun be rapidly

empty, and Mr. Somerville's great pitcher of tea frequently drain,

although he pretend to be very exclusive, and offer his service to

none but the child of St. Austin's, to whom Winifred introduce he.

the rest of the company walk round the cloister, which be cover

with dark red rose and honeysuckle, talk to the old people,

admire their flower, especially Mr. Dillon's dahlia, and watch

the troop of child, who look like a live flower-bed.



Mrs. Hazleby chance to be stand near Mrs. Bouverie, a lady who

live at some distance from Abbeychurch, and who be go to stay and

dine at the Vicarage.  she be tolerably well acquainted with Mr.

Woodbourne, but she have not see the girl since they be quite young

child, and now, remark Elizabeth, she ask Mrs. Hazleby if she

be one of Mr. Woodbourne's daughter.



'oh yes,' say Mrs. Hazleby, 'the eld of they.'



'she have a remarkably fine countenance,' say Mrs. Bouverie.



'do you admire she?' say Mrs. Hazleby; 'well, I never could see

anything so remarkably handsome in Lizzie Woodbourne.  too thin, too

sharp, too high-colour; Kate be twenty time pretty, to say nothing

of the little one.'



'I should not call Miss Woodbourne pretty,' say Mrs. Bouverie, 'but I

think her brow and eye exceedingly beautiful and full of expression.'



'oh yes,' cry Mrs. Hazleby, 'she be think vastly clever, I assure

you, though for my part I never could see anything in she but pertness.'



'she have not the air of be pert,' say Mrs. Bouverie.



'oh! she can give herself air enough,' say Mrs. Hazleby; 'my poor

sister-in-law have have trouble enough with she; just like her mother,

they say.'



'so I be think,' say Mrs. Bouverie, look at Elizabeth, who be

stoop down to a little shy girl, and try to hear she whisper

request.



Mrs. Bouverie speak in a tone so different from that which Mrs. Hazleby

expect, that even she find that she have go too far, and

recollect that it be possible that Mrs. Bouverie might have know

the first Mrs. Woodbourne.  she change her note. 'just like her poor

mother, and quite as delicate, poor girl.'



'be she indeed?' say Mrs. Bouverie, in a tone of great interest.



'yes, that she be, scarcely ever without a cough.  full of spirit, you

see--rather too, much of it; but I should not be surprised any day--'



at this moment Winifred come run up, to cry, 'look, Aunt Hazleby,

at the basket of ball; I have be to the house to fetch they, and now

the boy be go away to the cricket-ground, and the girl be to

have a famous game at play.'



Mrs. Hazleby only say, 'hm,' but the other lady pay more attention to

the little girl, who be very little troubled with shyness, and soon

be very happy--throw the ball to the girl, and--at the same

time--chatter to Mrs. Bouverie, and say a great deal about

'Lizzie,' tell how Lizzie say that one little girl be good and

another be naughty, that Lizzie say she should soon begin to teach

her French; Lizzie teach she all her lesson, Mamma only hear she

music; Lizzie have shew she where to look in her Consecration-book, so

that she should not be puzzle at Church to-day; Lizzie say she have

behave very well, and that she should tell Papa so; she have a red

ribbon with a medal with Winchester Cathedral upon it, which Lizzie let

she wear to shew Papa and Mamma when she be good at her lesson; she

hope she should wear it to-day, though she have not do any lesson,

for Lizzie say it be a joyful day, like a Sunday. all this make Mrs.

Bouverie desirous of be acquaint with 'Lizzie,' but she could find

no opportunity of speak to she, as Elizabeth never willingly come

near stranger, and be fully occupy with the school-child, so

that she and Anne be the last to come in-door to dress.



they be surprised on come in to find Helen sit on the last step

of the stair, with Dora on her lap, the latter cry bitterly, and

Helen use all those mean of consolation, which, with the good

intention, have generally the effect of make matter bad.  as soon

as Elizabeth appear, Dora spring towards she, exclaim, 'Lizzie,

dear Lizzie, do you know, Aunt Hazleby say that my mamma be not your

mamma, nor Kate's, nor Helen's, and I do not like it.  what do she

mean?  Lizzie, I do not understand.'



Elizabeth look up rather fiercely; but, kiss her little sister,

say, gently, 'yes, Dora, it be really true, my own mother lie in the

churchyard.  I will shew you where.'



'and be you, not my sister?' ask Dora, hold firmly by the hand

of Elizabeth, and Helen.



'oh yes, yes, Dora!' cry Helen, 'we be your sister, only not quite,

the same as Winifred.'



'and have you no mamma, really no mamma?' continue Dora looking

frighten, although soothe by Elizabeth's manner, and by feel that

the truth be really tell she.



'not really, Dora; but your mamma be quite the same to we as if she

really be our mother,' say. Elizabeth, lead the little girl away,

and leave Anne and Helen look unutterable thing at each other.



Helen then go into the large, drawing-room, to fetch some, of she

out-of-door apparel which she have leave there, and Anne follow she. no

one be in the room but Mrs. Hazleby, who look more disconcerted than

Helen have ever see she before.  she seem to think, it necessary to

make some apology, and begin, 'I be sure I have no notion that, the

child do not know it all perfectly at her age.'



'Mamma have always wish to keep the little one from know of any

difference as long as possible,' say Helen, rather indignantly; but

recollect herself, she add, 'I think Dora be rather tired, and

perhaps she be the more easily overcome for that reason.'



'ah! very likely, poor child,' say Mrs. Hazleby; 'it be folly to take

she to such a ceremony.'



'she seem to enjoy it, and enter into it as much as any of we,' say

Helen.



'ah! well, some people's child be vastly clever,' say Mrs.

Hazleby.  'do you know where Fido be, Miss Helen? if one may ask you

such a question.'



Helen reply very courteously, by an offer to go and look for he. he

be quickly find, and as soon as she have bring he to his mistress,

she follow Anne to Elizabeth's room, where in a short time they be

join by the latter, look wear and tired, and with the brilliant

flush of excitement on her cheek.



'be Dora comfort?' be the first question ask on her entrance.



'oh yes,' say Elizabeth, 'that be soon settle; she be only scared,

so I take she to Mamma, who kiss we both, tell Dora she love we all

the same, and so on; which make she quite happy again.'



'dear little affectionate creature!' exclaim Helen warmly.



'how very angry with her Mrs. Hazleby seem!' say Anne.



'yes,' say Helen, 'because Dora come to I in her distress, and would

not let Mrs. Hazleby kiss she.'



'how come Mrs. Hazleby to begin upon it?' say Elizabeth; 'be it from

her instinctive perception of disagreeable subject?'



'I can hardly tell,' say Helen, 'I be not there at first; I rather

think--' but here she stop short, and look confused.



'well, what do you think?'



'why, I believe it arise from her see Uncle Edward play with

Edward on the green,' begin Helen, with a good deal of hesitation,

'say that he be his godfather, and--and she--she hope he would be

would be as--he would do as much for he, as if he be actually his

uncle.'



'Horrid woman!' say Elizabeth, blush deeply.



'my dear Lizzie,' say Anne, laugh, 'do you hope he will not?'



'Nonsense, Anne,' say Elizabeth, laugh too; 'but I hope you quite

give up the hazleby after this speciman.'



'now, Lizzie,' say Helen, 'that be quite in your unjust sweeping style

of censuring.  you do not mean to say that Lucy, or the Major, or the

boy, be disagreeable.'



'root and branch, they be all infect,' say Elizabeth; 'who could

help it, live with Mrs. Hazleby?'



'pray do not be so unfair, Lizzie,' continue Helen; 'I be sure that

Lucy be a most amiable, sensible, gentle creature; the more to be

admire for have such a mother and sister.'



'by way of foil, I suppose,' say Elizabeth; 'still, save your

presence, Helen, I think that if Lucy have all the sense you ascribe to

she, she might keep thing a little more straight.'



'really, Lizzie,' say Helen, 'it be not like you to blame poor Lucy

for her misfortune; but I know very well that you only do it to

contradict I.'



'well,' say Elizabeth impatiently, 'I do allow that she be a redeem

point, but I do not give she such hyperbolical praise as you do; I may

say she be the good of they, without call she a paragon of

perfection.'



'I never call she any such thing!' exclaim Helen; 'but you will

always wrest my word, and pretend to misunderstand I.'



'I be sorry I have vex you, Helen,' say Elizabeth, more kindly; and

Helen leave the room.



'indeed, Lizzie,' say Anne, 'I cannot think why you argue against

this poor girl, after what you say yesterday.'



'because I cannot bear Helen's sententious decide manner,' say

Elizabeth; 'and she exaggerate so much, that I must sometimes take she

down.'



'but,' say Anne, 'do you not exaggerate the exaggeration, and so put

she more in the right than yourself?'



'you mean by turn her string of superlative into a paragon of

perfection,' say Elizabeth; 'I certainly believe I be unjust, but I

could not help it.'



Anne do not see that her cousin might not have help it, but she

think she have say enough on the subject, and let it pass.



'now, Anne,' say Elizabeth, presently after, 'what strange people we

be, to stand here abuse Helen and the Hazlebys, instead of talk

over such wonderful happiness as it be to think that your father and

mine have be allow to complete such a work as this church.'



'indeed it be wonderful happiness,' say Anne, her eye fill with

tear, 'but I do not know whether you feel as I do, that it be too

great, too overwhelming, to talk of now it be fresh.  we shall enjoy

look back to it more when we be far from it.'



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'this morning I be only fit to laugh or cry, at

I do not know what, and now I be vex with myself for having be too

much occupy and annoy with little thing to be happy enough.  this

Consecration day will be a glorious time to look back to, when it be

alone on the horizon, and we have lose sight of all that blemish it

now.  I will tell you what it will be like.  I once see the Church, on

a misty day, from a great distance.  it be about the middle of the

day, and the veil of mist be hang all round the hill, but there

stand the Church, clear and bright, and alone in the sunshine, all the

scaffold pole and unfinished roughness lose sight of in the distance.

I never see a more beautiful sight.'



'and do you expect that distance of time will conceal all blemish as

well as distance of place?' say Anne.



'yes, unless I take a telescope to look at they with,' answer

Elizabeth; 'perhaps, Anne, in thirty year time, if we both live so

long, we may meet and talk over this day, and smile, and wonder that we

could have be vex by anything at such a time.'



'you like look forward,' say Anne; 'I suppose I be too happy, for I

be afraid to look forward; any change of any sort must bring sorrow

with it.'



'I suppose you be right,' say Elizabeth; 'that be, I believe the

safe frame of mind to be that which resign itself to anything that

may be appoint for it, rather than that which make scheme and

project for itself.'



'oh! but, Lizzie,' say Anne, 'I do not mean that.  mine be rather an

indolent frame, which do not scheme, because my present condition be,

I do believe, happy than any I could imagine upon earth.  I do not

think that be resignation--there be some thing under which I do not

think I could be resign, at least not with my present feeling.'



'yes, you would, Anne,' say Elizabeth; 'you be just the calm temper

person who would rise up to meet the trial in peace.--But I do not know

what I be talk about; and so I shall go on with what I mean to say

before--that bright vision be my great delight.  I like to fancy what

Horace and Edward may be, I like to imagine my own mind grow old, I

like to consider what I shall think of the thing that occupy we now.

but then I be not likely to be disappoint, even if my castle in the

air should fall down.  you know I be not likely to be a long-live

person.'



'oh! do not say so, my dear Lizzie,' cry Anne; 'I cannot bear it.'



'indeed, Anne,' say Elizabeth, 'I do not mean to say anything which

could shock you.  I only touch upon what you must have know half

your life, and what Mrs. Hazleby have take good care that I should not

forget.  I be perfectly well now, and have nothing the matter with I;

but then I know that a little illness have a great effect upon I, and

my cold be much soon catch than cure.'



before Anne could answer, there be a knock at the door, and Lady

Merton's maid appear, ready to dress her young lady for the evening;

and thus the conversation end.



the girl be to drink tea in the inner drawing-room, as soon as the

company be go into the dining-room; and Anne and Elizabeth wait

to come down-stair till dinner have begin.



as soon as they enter the room, Harriet begin to admire the lace

trimming of Anne's dress, ask many question about it, to all of

which Anne reply with great good nature.  as soon as the lace have

be sufficiently discuss, Harriet turn round to Elizabeth,

exclaim, 'why, Lizzie, why in the world have you take to that

fashion of do your hair? it make you look thin than ever. such

dark hair too! it want a little colour to relieve it; why do you not

wear a red band in it, like mine?'



'I think this way of wear it save time,' say Elizabeth; 'but I

believe I shall curl it again.'



'indeed I hope you will; you have no notion how thin it make you

look,' say Harriet.



'of course I must look thin if I be thin,' say Elizabeth, a good deal

annoy by Harriet's pertinacity.



'thin you be, indeed,' continue Harriet, take hold of her wrist.

Elizabeth draw back hastily, and Harriet relinquish it; conscious

perhaps, that however thin the arm might look, her own broad ruddy hand

would hardly bear a comparison with Elizabeth's long slender white

finger, and return to the subject of the hair, shake her profusion

of ringlet.



'and straight hair be all the fashion now, but I think it give a

terrible dowdy look.  only that do not signify when you be not

out.--By-the-bye, Miss Merton, be you out?'



'I shall not be seventeen these three month,' say Anne.



'well, I be not seventeen yet, nor near it,' pursue Harriet; 'but I

always dine out, and at home too.  don't I, Lucy?'



Elizabeth do not think it necessary to make any apology for Harriet's

not having be ask to dine with the company, since Mrs. Woodbourne

have already settle that matter with Mrs. Hazleby; but Katharine, who,

though young, have more idea of manner, say, after a little

hesitation, 'Mamma talk of it, but Papa say that if one dine all

must, and there would be too many.'



'oh, law! Kate,' say Harriet, 'never mind; I do not mind it a bit, I

would just as soon drink tea here, as dine.--You be not out, be you,

Lizzie?'



'if you consider that dining constitute be out, I generally be,'

say Elizabeth, rather coldly and haughtily.



'ay, ay,' cry Harriet, laugh, 'you would be out indeed, to go

without your dinner.--Capital, be not it, Kate? but I want to know

whether you be regularly come out?'



'I do not know,' reply Elizabeth.



'oh, then, you be not,' say Harriet; 'everyone know who be out: I

should not have be out now, if it have not be for Frank Hollis, (he

be senior lieutenant at last, you know)--well, when our officer give

the grand ball at Hull, Frank Hollis come to Mamma, and say they could

do nothing without the Major's daughter, and I must open the ball.

such nonsense he talk--didn't he, Lucy?  well, Mamma give way, and

say she'd persuade the Major.  Papa be rather grumpy at first, you

know, Lucy, but we coax he over at last.  oh, it be such fun!  I

dance first with Frank Hollis--just out of gratitude, you know, and

then with Captain Murphy, and then--o Lucy, do you remember _who_?--and

I have a silk dress which Mamma bring from India, trim just like

your, Miss Merton, only with four row of lace, because I be tall,

you know, and a berthe of--'



Elizabeth could endure this no long, and break in, 'and pray,

Harriet, do you learn the book of fashion by heart?'



'not quite,' say Harriet, with provoke obtuseness, or good humour;

'I do very nearly, though, when I be make my dress.  now, Lizzie,

do not you wish you be out?'



'no, not in the least,' say Elizabeth, by this time quite out of

patience; 'I think society a nuisance, and I be glad to be free of it

as long as I can.'



'Lizzie,' say Helen gravely, 'you be talk rhodomontade.'



'by no mean, Helen,' say Elizabeth; 'it be my serious opinion, that,

unless you can find real friend, mind that suit you, you should keep

to yourself, and let bore and geese keep to themselves.'



'become yourself one of the interesting tribe of bear, or perhaps of

crab,' whisper Anne.



'well, what an odd girl you be!' cry Harriet; 'well, if ever--!'



'but, Lizzie, what would become of the world if there be no society?'

say Katherine.



'and, Lizzie,' begin Helen, very seriously, 'do not you know that it be

a duty to take part in society, that--'



'oh yes, Helen!' answer Elizabeth; 'I know all that book and wise

people say; but what I say be this: if a sumptuary law could decree

that wit should be measure by one standard, like the ruff and

rapier in Queen Elizabeth's time, so that those find want might be

banish, there might be some use in meet people; but in the present

state of thing there be none.'



'but how would you choose your standard?' say Anne; 'everyone would

take their own degree of sense as a measure.'



'let they,' say Elizabeth; 'there would be a set of measure like the

bolter in a mill, one for the pastry-flour, one for the bread-flour,

one for the blue, one for the bran.'



'I be glad you put the blue after the bread,' say Anne; 'there be

hope of you yet, Lizzie.'



Elizabeth be too far advanced in her career of nonsense to be easily

check, even by Anne; and she continue, 'Sir Walter Scott say in one

of his letter, that he wish there could be a whole village of poet

and antiquary isolate from the rest of the world.  that must be like

what I mean.'



'I do not think he mean what he say there,' say Helen.



'and pray remember,' say Anne, 'that your favourite brown bread be

make of all those kind mix--bran, and pastry-flour, and all.'



'yes,' say Helen, 'all the world would turn idiot if there be not a

few sensible people to raise the other.'



'well,' say Elizabeth, 'you know the Veillees du Chateau say, there

be a village where all the people do turn idiot at fourteen.'



'you be just the right age, Helen,' say Anne, 'you have well take

care, since Lizzie say you live in such a foolish world.'



Helen have not tact enough to perceive that it be well to turn off

the discussion by a joke, and continue, 'and you forget how useful it

be to the sensible people to be oblige to bear and forbear.'



'I should be content, if the foolish people would be raise by the

wise, instead of debase they,' say Elizabeth.



'if people be really wise, they will not let themselves be debase,'

say Anne.



Helen glance towards Lucy, Elizabeth catch her eye, and smile in a

way which almost compensate for all her unkindness in their dispute an

hour before.



Harriet and Katherine, who have not be much interested by this

argument, now start another subject of conversation, which they have

almost entirely to themselves, and which occupy they until tea be

over, somewhat to Anne's amusement and Elizabeth's disgust, as they

listen to it.



as soon as the tea-thing be remove, Elizabeth and Anne go to

fetch the child.  Elizabeth let loose her indignation as soon as she

be out of the drawing-room.



'do you ever hear anything so vulgar?' say she.



'indeed it be very ridiculous,' say Anne, begin to laugh at the

remembrance.



'how can you be divert with thing that enrage I?' say Elizabeth.



'it be well than take they to heart, as you do, my poor Lizzie,'

say Anne; 'they be but folly after all.'



'disgust provoke folly,' say Elizabeth; 'and then to see Kate

look as if she think it must be so delectable.  really, Kate be

quite spoil between Harriet and the Abbeychurch riff-raff, and I can

do nothing to prevent it.'



'but,' say Anne diffidently, see that her cousin be in a graver

mood this evening, 'do not you think that perhaps if you could be a

little more companionable to Kate, and not say thing so evidently for

the sake of contradiction, you might gain a little useful influence?'



'well,' say Elizabeth, smile, 'I believe I do deserve a good

scolding; I fancy I be outrageously rude; but when people talk such

stuff, I do not much care what I say, as long as I be on the other side

of the question.'



'still the reverse of wrong be not always right,' say Anne.



they now find themselves at the nursery door, and summon the

child from that scene of plaything, and bread and butter.

Down-stair, one of those game at romp arise, for which little

child be often make an excuse by great one, and which be only

conclude by the entrance of the lady from the drawing-room, which

cause Harriet hastily to retreat into the inner drawing-room, to

smoothe her ruffled lace; while Katherine be re-tie Winifred's

loosen sash, and lay a few refractory curl in their right place.



Mrs. Woodbourne call Elizabeth, and introduce she as 'my eld

daughter,' to Mrs. Bouverie, and to Mrs. Dale, a lady who have lately

come to live in the neighbourhood, and who discover a most striking

resemblance between Mrs. Woodbourne and Elizabeth, certainly at the

expense of a considerable stretch of imagination, as Mrs. Woodbourne

be a very little and very elegant look person, very fair and pale,

and Elizabeth be tall, dark-eye, dark-haired, her figure much too

slender for her height, and her movement too rapid to be graceful,

altogether as different a style of person as could well be imagine.



not much prepossess in favour of the party in general by this

speciman, Elizabeth, after shake hand with Miss Maynard and her

niece, people whom she seldom see, and do not much like, retreat to

one of the window, and there begin to meditate, as be her usual

custom on such occasion.  once, when accompany Mrs. Woodbourne on a

morning visit expedition, she have translate the Erl King, which she

know by heart, into English, far more literal than Sir Walter Scott's,

and with no fault, except that not above half the couplet profess to

rhyme, and most of those that do be deficient in metre.  another

time she have compose three quarter of a story of a Saxon hero,

oppress by a Norman baron, and go to the Crusades; and at another

time she have send back the whole party to the time of Queen Elizabeth,

and fancy what they might be say about the Spanish Armada.  but

now, whether because there be too much talk in the room, or because

the Consecration have lately leave no room for the fancy on which she

be accustom to feed, she could find nothing more sublime to reflect

upon than the appearance of her cousin Anne, who be entertain the

young Miss Maynard, a shy girl, yet pleased with notice, by a

conversation, which, if not very interesting, save she from belong

to any of the four agreeable tribe mention at tea-time.



now, Anne, though she do not posse the tall figure or strike

countenance of her cousin, the Woodbournes, or the brilliant

complexion of her brother, be one of those people who always look

well.  she be small and slightly make, and very graceful; and

everything she wear be appropriate and become, so that, without

bestow much thought on the matter, she never look otherwise than

perfectly well dressed.  she be rather pale; her eye be grey, with

long dark lash; and her hair brown; her feature be well form and

animate; and though by no mean remarkable, everyone call she

nice-look; some say she be pretty, and a few thought and feel that

her countenance be lovely.  so much have lately be say about

dress--about Elizabeth's curl, and Helen's tail, and Anne's

lace--that, wonderful to say, it be the readiest subject Elizabeth

could find to meditate upon.  as she look at her cousin's white

muslin frock, with its border of handsome moravian work, and its

delicate blue satin ribbon, at her well arranged hair, and pretty

mosaic brooch, she enter upon a calculation respect the portion of

a woman's mind which ought to be occupy with her dress--a mental

process, the result of which might perhaps have prove of great benefit

to herself, and ultimately to Dora and Winifred, have it not be

suddenly cut short in the midst by a pierce scream from the latter

young lady, who have be play on the floor with Edward and Fido.



Mrs. Woodbourne instantly catch up the little girl in her arm, and

sit down on the sofa with she on her lap, while Winifred bury she

hand in her pocket-handkerchief, scream and sob violently. Fido

slunk away under the sofa; and Elizabeth hastily make her way through

the circle of lady who surround Mrs. Woodbourne.



'that be what come of teaze he,' say Mrs. Hazleby reproachfully to

Edward; who answer in a loud voice, 'I be sure I do not make he do

it.'



Elizabeth kneel down by Mrs. Woodbourne, and begin to unroll the

handkerchief in which Winifred have wind up her hand; but she be

prevent by a fresh scream from the patient.



'oh! my dear, never mind, do not cry; come, be a brave woman,' say

poor Mrs. Woodbourne, her voice quiver with alarm.



'poor little dear!' exclaim Mrs. Dale, 'she bear it like a little

angel; but it be quite a severe bite.'



'Mamma,' say Elizabeth, rise, 'I think she have well come up-stair

with I.  do not you come, Mamma; I will send for you, if--if it be

more than a scratch.'



she take Winifred in her arm and carry she off, follow by Mrs.

Dale, Miss Maynard, Harriet, Katherine, and Dora, the last-mention

look quite pale with fright.



'if you please,' say Elizabeth, turn round at the foot of the

stair, 'I can manage she well alone.'



she gain her point, though at the expense of politeness.  Mrs. Dale

and Miss Maynard retreat, and Harriet and Katherine follow in their

train.  Dora look inquiringly at her eld sister.



'yes, Dora, you may come,' say she, run up-stair to her own room,

where she shut the door, and set Winifred on her foot again. 'well,

winifre, let we see,' say she cheerfully, 'be you much hurt?'



'it bleed,' say Winifred, withhold her hand.



'not very much,' say Elizabeth, remove the handkerchief, and washing

off the blood, which have be more the cause of the scream than the

pain.  she soon satisfy herself and her sister that the bite be

scarcely more than a scratch; and a piece of sticking-plaster, fetch

by Dora, whose ready eye and clear thoughtful head have already make she

the good finder in the family, have cover the wound before Mrs.

Woodbourne come up to satisfy herself as to the extent of the injury.

Winifred have by this time be divert from the contemplation of she

misfortune by the fitting on of the sticking-plaster, and by

admiration of Anne's bright rose-wood dressing-box, and be full of the

delight of discover that A. K. M., engraven in silver upon the lid,

stand for Anne Katherine Merton, when her mamma come in.  it appear

that the little girl and her brother have be play rather too

roughly with Fido, and that he have revenge himself after the usual

fashion of little dog, especially of those not come to year of

discretion.  Winifred be quite ready to assure her mamma that he have

scarcely hurt she, and that she be very sorry she have cry so much.

Mrs. Woodbourne and Elizabeth, however, agree that it would be well

for she to appear no more that evening, and Dora undertake to keep she

company in the nursery--glad, as Elizabeth could see, to escape from

the presence of Aunt Hazleby, who have sink much in Dora's good grace

since her conversation with she in the afternoon.



'if people would but let child alone,' say Elizabeth, as the two

little girl depart hand in hand; 'it put I out of all patience to

see she first make silly by be pity, and then tell she be an

angel.  too bad and too silly, I declare.'



'you should consider a little, my dear, and not speak so hastily,' say

gentle Mrs. Woodbourne; 'they mean it kindly.'



'mistaken kindness,' say Elizabeth, as she open the drawing-room

door.



in a moment they be overwhelm with inquiry for 'the sweet little

sufferer,' as Mrs. Dale call she.



'I only hope there be no fear of the dog's be mad,' observe that

lady.



'oh! there be no danger of that,' say Elizabeth, know how such a

terror would dwell on Mrs. Woodbourne's spirit.  'see, he can drink.'



Mrs. Hazleby have take possession of the cream-jug, which have

accompany the coffee, and be console the offender by pour some

of its content into a saucer for he.



'but I think it be water that mad dog refuse,' say Mrs. Dale.



'mad dog!' cry Mrs. Hazleby, 'he be as mad as I be, I fancy; it be

quite enough to make he bite when Edward there be pull his ear.'



'I do not pull his ear, Aunt Hazleby; I do not make he bite

winifre,' vociferate Edward; 'I tell you so before, Aunt Hazleby, and

you will say so.'



'fine little fellow,' whisper Mrs. Dale, quite loud enough for Edward

to hear she; 'I quite admire his spirit.'



'do not be rude, Edward my dear,' say his mother.



'but Aunt Hazleby will say that I make Fido bite Winifred, Mamma,' say

Edward; 'and I do not, he do it of himself.'



'never mind now, my love, pray be quiet, my dear boy,' say Mrs.

Woodbourne imploringly; and Edward, who be really a very tractable

boy, walk off to his sister Katherine.



Mrs. Dale then seize upon Mrs. Woodbourne, to tell she some horrible

story of hydrophobia; and Elizabeth, in hope of lessen the

impression such story be likely to make on Mrs. Woodbourne's mind,

listen also, sometimes not very courteously correct evident

exaggeration, and at other contradict certain statement.  at

last, just as the subject, fertile as it be, be exhaust, Anne's

go to the piano, and carry off a train of listener, bring Mrs.

Bouverie next to Elizabeth, and she take the opportunity of enter

into conversation with she.



'do you play, Miss Woodbourne?'



'no, I do not,' reply Elizabeth, who particularly dislike this mode

of begin a conversation.



'do not you like music?' continue Mrs. Bouverie.



'I seldom have hear any I like,' say Elizabeth shortly.



'indeed you have be unfortunate,' say Mrs. Bouverie; 'but perhaps

you be not fond of the piano?'



'no,' say Elizabeth, with rather less of the manner of a suspect

criminal examine in sight of the rack; 'I be sick of all the

Abbeychurch piano; I know they all perfectly, and hear nothing else.'



Mrs. Bouverie laugh, and be glad to obtain something like an answer.

'your cousin play very well,' say she.



'yes,' say Elizabeth, 'I like her music well than most people's, and

she do not make a great fuss about it, she play when she think

people like it, and not when they ask only out of politeness, without

care about it.'



'do you think many people ask in that manner?' say Mrs. Bouverie.



'oh yes, everyone,' say Elizabeth; 'what can they do when they see a

disconsolate damsel sit in a corner with nothing to say, and only

longing to be at the piano by way of do something?  it would be too

cruel not to ask she.'



'do you ever do so?' say Mrs. Bouverie, smile.



'no,' say Elizabeth, 'luckily it be no affair of mine yet; but if ever

it be, there would be a hard struggle between my politeness and

sincerity.'



'sincerity would be most likely to gain the day,' think Mrs.

Bouverie.  'perhaps,' say she, 'you be not a fair judge of other

people's sincerity, since you do not like music yourself.'



'I think,' say Elizabeth, 'that even if I do play, I could see in

people's face whether they mean what they say; that be, if vanity

and love of applause do not blind I.'



Mrs. Bouverie be silent for a moment, and then say, 'well, I must

say, I be disappointed to find that you do not play.'



Elizabeth remember how well her mother have, play, and it be plain

to she that Mrs. Bouverie be notice she for her mother's sake.  she

look down and colour as she reply, 'both my sister be musical,

and Helen be say to be likely to sing very well.  I believe the

history of my want of music to be,' add she, with a bright smile,

'that I be too naughty to learn; and now, I be afraid--I be not sorry

for it, as it would have take up a great deal of time, and two singing

sister be surely enough for one family.'



'I be in hope of hearing,' say Mrs. Bouverie, 'that you have train

your school-child to sing the sixty-fifth Psalm as nicely as they

do to-day.  I be sure their teacher must have come from the vicarage.'



'no,' say Elizabeth, 'it be the school-master who teach they.

perhaps, if Helen have not be from home so long, she might have help

the girl, but when she come home three week ago, it be hardly worth

while for she to begin.  that be the only reason I ever wish to

understand music.'



Mrs. Bouverie now begin talk to she about the church and its

architecture, and of the child, in exactly the way that Elizabeth

like, and in half an hour she see more of Elizabeth's true self than

Miss Maynard have ever see, though she have know she all her life. Miss

Maynard have see only her roughness.  Mrs. Bouverie have find her way

below it.   Elizabeth be as sincere and open as the day, although from

seldom meet with anyone who could comprehend or sympathize with her

idea, her manner have acquire a degree of roughness and reserve,

difficult to penetrate, and anything but attractive, suit ill with

her sweet smile and beam eye.  she be talk quite happily and

confidentially to Mrs. Bouverie, when she catch Mrs. Woodbourne's eye,

and see she look anxious, she remember Winifred's disaster, and

take the first opportunity of hasten up-stair to see whether the

little girl's hand be still in as favourable a state as when she leave

she.



a few moment after she have quit the room, Sir Edward Merton

approach Mrs. Bouverie, and take the place beside she, which

Elizabeth have lately occupy.



'I hope Elizabeth have be gracious to you, as I see you have be so

kind as to talk to she,' say he, smile.



'oh, I hope we be become good friend,' say Mrs. Bouverie; 'I have

seldom see so young a girl shew as much mind as your niece.'



'I be very glad to hear you say so,' say Sir Edward, 'for she be apt

to be rather more reserved with stranger than could be wish.'



'perhaps she do not consider I as an entire stranger; I remember

see she once when a most engaging little child of four or five year

old,' say Mrs. Bouverie; 'and now I hope our acquaintance will

continue.  shall we see she at Marlowe Court to-morrow, as I believe we

meet you there?  of course we shall see Miss Merton?'



'no, I believe not,' say Sir Edward; 'we be rather too large a number

without the girl, who really form quite a troop by themselves.'



'I like to see your daughter and Miss Woodbourne together,' say Mrs.

Bouverie; 'I be sure they must be great ally.'



'yes,' say Sir Edward, 'there be a tolerably strong cousinly

friendship between they: Anne have a wholesome feeling of inferiority,

which make she rather proud of her cousin's preference.'



'do you not think Miss Woodbourne very like her mother?' say Mrs.

Bouverie.  'I know she immediately by the resemblance.'



'very--very like she, a little darker certainly,' say Sir Edward, 'but

she remind I of she constantly--there--that smile be my sister's

exactly.'



Elizabeth have just then re-enter the room, and be assure her mamma

that Winifred have be as playful as ever all the remainder of the

evening, and be now fast asleep in bed.



'I be only afraid she be too fragile and delicate a creature,' say

Mrs. Bouverie; 'be her health strong?'



'strong? no, not very,' say Sir Edward, 'she require care, but there

be nothing much amiss with she; I know most people about here be in

the habit of lament over she as in a most dangerous state; but I

believe the fact be, that Mrs. Woodbourne be a nervous anxious person,

and frighten herself more than there be any occasion for.'



'then I hope she generally look less delicate than she do to-night,'

say Mrs. Bouverie.



'oh! she may well look over-work to-night,' say Sir Edward; 'she have

a spirit in she which would not let she rest on such a day as

this.--Come here, Miss Lizzie,' say he, beckon to she, 'I want you

to account for those two red spot upon your cheek.  do you think they

ought to be there?'



'yes, if they come in a good cause, Uncle,' say Elizabeth.



'do you mean, then, to wear they any long than necessary?' say Sir

Edward; 'pray have you sit still for five minute together to-day?'



'yes, while I be at tea,' say Elizabeth.



'and why be not you in bed and asleep at this moment?' ask her uncle.



'that be the very question Mamma have be ask,' say Elizabeth; 'and

I have be promise to depart, as soon as I can make my escape; so

good night, Uncle Edward--good night,' say she, give her hand to her

uncle and to Mrs. Bouverie with almost equal cordiality.



'good night, Lizzie, get you go,' say Sir Edward; 'and if you can

carry off my girl with you, I shall be all the well pleased.'



Elizabeth succeed in touch Anne's arm; and the two cousin flit

away together, and soon forget the various delight and annoyance of

the day in sleep.









CHAPTER VI.





the next morning be gloomy and rainy, as Elizabeth inform Anne at

about seven o'clock; 'and I be not sorry for it,' say she, 'for I want

to have you all to myself at home, so we will turn the incubi over to

Kate and Helen, and be comfortable together.'



'will they submit to such treatment?' say Anne.



'oh yes, my dear,' say Elizabeth; 'they want we as little as we want

they; they only want a little civility, and I will not be so sparing of

that useful commodity as I be yesterday evening.  and now, Anne, I be

go to beg your pardon for be so excessively rude to Harriet, as I

be last night.  she do not mind it, but you do, and much more than

if it have be to yourself.'



'I believe I do,' say Anne; 'other people do not know what you mean

when you set up your bristle, and I do.  besides, I be sorry for

Lucy, who look as if she have sensitiveness enough for the whole

family.'



'Poor Lucy!' say Elizabeth;





          "a weary lot be thine, fair maid,

             a weary lot be thine."





yes, Lucy have very deep feeling; you may see it in the painful flushing

of her cheek, and the downcast look of her eye, when her mother and

sister expose themselves.  I really believe that that poor girl have

more to endure than most people.'



'o lizzie,' say Anne, 'how differently you speak of she yesterday!'



'yes,' say Elizabeth, 'but then I be furious with Mrs. Hazleby; and

besides, I believe the truth be, that I be very tired and very cross,

not exactly the way in which I intend to conclude the Consecration

day; and now I be in my sense, I be very sorry I behave as I do.

but, Anne, though I hereby retract all I say in dispraise of Lucy, and

confess that I be rude to Harriet, do not imagine that I disavow all I

say about society last night, for I assure you that I express my

deliberate opinion.'



'your deliberate opinion, my dear?' say Anne, laugh.



'yes, my deliberate opinion, my dear,' repeat Elizabeth.  'pray why

should not I have a deliberate opinion, as well as Hannah More, or

Locke on the Human Understanding, or anyone else?'



'because,' rejoin Anne, 'I think that if the rest of the world be

of your deliberate opinion, there would soon be a lock on the human

understanding.'



'I be sure I think there be at present,' return Elizabeth; 'do you

see Aunt Anne last night waste upon Mrs. Dale, oblige to listen to

the dull stuff that ever be invent, and poor Mamma frighten out

of her wit?  I should not wonder if she have dream of mad dog all

night.'



'I do not defend Mrs. Dale's power of intellect,' say Anne, 'but I

should have think that you at least have little reason to complain.

you be very well off next to Mrs. Bouverie.'



'oh! Mrs. Bouverie be a rara avis, an exception to the general rule,'

say Elizabeth; 'but you know, she or my uncle, or aunt, or Papa, be

generally force to put a lock on their understanding.  why, Anne, what

be you laugh at?'



'Lizzie, I beg your pardon,' say Anne, try to check herself, 'but I

could not help it.  your speech put I in mind of the print from

Albano's four element.  do not you remember Juno's visit to AEolus,

where he be open the door of a little corner cupboard where he keep

the puff-cheek wind lock up?  do you mean to say that Mamma keep

her mighty power of mind lock up in the same way, for fear they

should burst out and overwhelm everybody?'



Elizabeth heartily join in her cousin's merriment.  'I will tell you

what I do mean, Anne, what the great law of society be.  now, do not

put on that absurd face of mock gravity, or I shall only laugh, instead

of argue properly.'



'well, let we hear,' say Anne.



'it be almost more important than the law that you must eat with a

knife and fork,' say Elizabeth.  'there be one level of conversation,

fit for the mean capacity; and whoever venture to transgress it, be

instantly call blue, or a horrid bore, &c., &c.'



'Nonsense, Lizzie,' say Anne, laugh; 'I be sure I have hear plenty

of clever people talk, about sensible thing too, and never do I hear

they call bore, or blue, or any of your awful et cetera either.'



'because people do not dare to do so,' say Elizabeth, 'but they

think it all the same.'



'what do you mean by people?' say Anne.



'the dull, respectable, common-place gentry, who make up the mass of

mankind,' say Elizabeth.



'do they?' say Anne.



'do not they?' say Elizabeth.



'I do not know what the mass of mankind may be at Abbeychurch,' say

Anne, 'but I be sure the people whom we see oftenest at home, be such

as I think it a privilege to know.'  and she begin to enumerate these

friend.



'oh! Anne,' interrupt Elizabeth, 'do not, for pity's sake, make I

discontent; here be I in Abbeychurch, and must make the good of it. I

must be as polite and hypocritical as I can make myself.  I must waste

my time and endure dullness.'



'as to waste of time,' say Anne, 'perhaps it be most usefully employ

in what be so irksome as you find be in company.  Mamma have always

wish I to remember, that acquire knowledge may after all be but a

selfish gratification, and many thing ought to be attend to first.'



'that doctrine would not do for everybody,' say Elizabeth.



'no,' say Anne, 'but it do for we; and you will see it plainer, if

you remember on what authority it be say that all knowledge be

profitable for nothing without charity.'



'Charity, yes,' say Elizabeth; 'but christian love be a very different

thing from drawing-room civility.'



'not very different from bear and forbearing, as Helen say,'

answer Anne.



'politeness be not great enough,' say Elizabeth, 'to belong to

charity.'



'you be not the person to say so,' say Anne.



'because I dislike it so much,' say Elizabeth, 'but that be because I

despise it.  it be such folly to sit a whole evening with your hand

before you do nothing.'



'but do you not think,' say Anne, 'that endure restraint, and

listen to what be not amusing, for the sake of please other, be

do something?'



'passively, not actively,' say Elizabeth; 'but it be not to please

other, it be only that they may think you well breed, or rather that

they may not think about you at all.'



'it be to please our father and mother,' say Anne.



'yes, and that be the reason it must be do,' say Elizabeth; 'it be

the way of the world, and cannot be help.'



'rather say it be the trial which have be ordain for we,' say Anne.



'well,' say Elizabeth, smile, 'I know all the time that you have the

good of the argument.  it would not be so if it be not good for we.'



'and as it be,' say Anne, 'I believe that there be more enjoyment in

the present order of thing, than there would be in any arrangement we

could devise.'



'oh! doubtless,' say Elizabeth, 'just as the corn ripen well with

all the disaster that seem to befall it, than it would if we have the

command of the cloud.'



'of course,' say Anne, 'you really be a much more reasonable creature

than you pretend to be, Lizzie.'



'be I?' say Elizabeth.  'well, I will just tell you my great horror,

and I suppose you will laugh at I.  I can endure gossip for old people

who cannot employ themselves, and must talk, and have nothing to talk

of but their neighbour; but only think of those wretched _fainéant_

who go chatter on, waste their own time and other people's, do

no good on the face of the earth, and a great deal of harm.'



'but these unfortunate be probably quite as unable to talk on any

very wise subject, as your beloved old people, to whom you give a

license to gossip,' say Anne; 'and you do not wish to condemn they to

perpetual silence.  they be most likely to be estimable people, who

ought to be amuse.'



'estimable--yes, perhaps,' say Elizabeth, 'but then I cannot esteem a

silly gossip.'



'why, Lizzie,' cry Anne, 'you be still at the old story that it be

well to be wicked than stupid; at least, you reason upon that

foundation, though you do not really think so.'



'I believe,' say Elizabeth, 'that there must be some great crook in my

mind; for though I know and believe as firmly as I do any other

important thing, that mere intellect be utterly worthless, I cannot

feel it; it bewitch I as beauty do some people, and I suppose

always will, till I grow old and stupid, or get my mind into well

order.'



'really,' say Anne, 'I think the strong proof of your beginning to

grow old and stupid, be your do such a very common-place thing, as

to abuse honest gossip.'



there be service at St. Mary's Church on Wednesday and Friday

morning; but on this day the rain be so violent, that of all the

party at the Vicarage, the Mertons, and Elizabeth, Katherine, and

Helen, alone venture to go to church.



when they return, Anne follow her mother to her room, to talk over

the event of the previous day.  after much have be say of the

Consecration, and also of their wonder and regret at Rupert's absence,

Anne say, 'how strange it seem to lose sight of you and Papa as I

have do ever since I have be here!  Mamma, I have scarcely be

with you at all, and never see Papa but when he be talk to Uncle

Woodbourne, and everyone else be in the room.'



'but I hope you be enjoy yourself, my dear?' say Lady Merton.



'oh yes, Mamma,' cry Anne; 'Lizzie be more delightful than ever, when

we be alone.'



'be you take a sudden romantic turn?' say Lady Merton, smile; 'do

you mean in future to keep one friend all to yourself?'



'oh no, Mamma,' say Anne, laugh; 'I only mean that Lizzie be more

like herself when we be alone together.  sometimes when the other be

there, she get vex, and say thing which I do not like to hear,

only for the sake of differ from they.'



'I have see something of the kind about she before,' say Lady Merton,

'but not enough to be unpleasant.'



'no, Mamma, because you do not talk as Miss Hazleby do yesterday,'

say Anne, smile.  'she certainly do make a very ridiculous oration

about officer and flirtation; but Lizzie, instead of put a stop

to it quietly and gently, only go into the other extreme, and talk

about dislike all society.'



'I be very sorry to hear this,' say Lady Merton; 'I be afraid she will

make herself absurd and disagreeable by this spirit of contradiction,

even if nothing bad come of it.'



'it be not all out of a spirit of contradiction,' say Anne, 'though

she say this morning, that she be very tired and very cross yesterday

evening.  but, Mamma, she also say that she think the time she spend

in company waste, and she really believe that no one dare to talk

sense, or that if he do, everyone dislike he.'



'that be only a little unconscious affectation of be wise than

other people, assist by live in a place where there be the usual

complement of dull people, and where her father's situation prevent

he from associate only with those whom he would prefer,' say Lady

Merton; 'her good sense will get the well of it.  I be much more

anxious about this spirit of contradiction.'



'yes, it certainly lead she to be very unjust, as she acknowledge this

morning,' say Anne, 'and rather unkind to Helen.  but then it be no

wonder that she be mad with the Hazlebys.'



Anne then tell the history of poor Dora's trouble, and be quite

satisfied with her mother's displeasure at Mrs. Hazleby, and her

admiration of little Dora.



'and what do you think of Helen?' ask she presently.



'I can hardly tell,' say Anne, 'she be still very demure, with very

little of Lizzie's sparkling merriment; indeed, she do not seem in

the least able to enter into a joke.  but then she say some very

sensible thing.  Lizzie say she wonder what we should think of she.

she think she very much improve, but complain that she have lose she

home feeling, and care only for dykeland; I scarcely know what she

mean.'



'I think that I can guess,' say Lady Merton, 'from know a little

more of Mrs. Staunton's character.  she be a very amiable person, and

have in reality, I believe, plenty of good sense; but she have allow

herself to fall into an exaggerated style of feeling and expression,

which, I dare say, bewitch a girl like Helen, and now make she find

home cold and desolate.'



'like the letter which Mrs. Staunton write to you about Rupert, and

which Papa call ecstatic,' say Anne.



'that be an instance of Mrs. Staunton's way of express herself,'

say Lady Merton; 'now I will give you one of her acuteness of feeling,

as she call it.  your Aunt Katherine be her great friend when she

be a girl, though I believe the kind epithet she lavish upon I

would have be enough to stock two or three moderate friendship.  we

all use to walk together, and spend at least one evening in the week

together.  one evening, your aunt, who have a good deal of the same high

careless spirit which you observe in Lizzie, chance to make some

observation upon the rudeness of sailor in general, forget that

Helen Atherley's brother be a sailor.'



'or if she have remember it,' say Anne, 'judge by Lizzie, she would

have say the same thing; she would have take it for grant that the

present company be always except.'



'Captain Atherley be not of the present company,' say Lady Merton,

'he be in the Mediterranean; and it happen that he have not have time

to call at Merton Hall in due form, the last time he have be at home,

so that poor Helen think that this speech be aim at he. she say

nothing at the time; but next morning arrive a note to I, to entreat

I to find out what her darle Henry could possibly have do to

offend dear Katherine Merton, for she should be wretche till she

understand it, and Katherine have forgive she and he.  she assure I

that she have lain awake all night, think it over, and have at last

come to the conclusion that it must be this unfortunate omission, and

she promise to write to dear Henry immediately, to make he send all

possible apology.'



'Poor Captain Atherley!' exclaim Anne; 'and what could my aunt say?'



'unfortunately,' say Lady Merton, 'both she and I have entirely

forget the speech, and could not guess what could have give rise to

Helen's imagination.  after a consultation, I be depute to Helen

with many assurance that Katherine be very sorry, she could not

exactly tell why, but for whatever have grieve Helen; and after a good

deal of kiss and lament on both side, which, I believe,

Katherine consider as a punishment for her inconsiderate speech,

thing be set right again.'



'Inconsiderate, Mamma?' say Anne; 'that seem as if you blame my

aunt, when it seem to I that Mrs. Staunton deserve all the blame for

her excessive folly, and what I should think want of confidence in her

friend's affection.'



'it be certainly very silly,' say Lady Merton; 'but you know, Anne,

that when people have once accustom themselves to get into a habit of

make mountain of mole-hill, they cannot see anything as it really

be.  I think Katherine quite in the right, as you do now, but I

believe she consider that, know as she do the over-sensitiveness

of her friend, she should have be more cautious in what she say.'



'that be the right way for she to take it,' say Anne; 'but I still

think Mrs. Staunton must be an excessively silly person.  of course one

would wish to keep from hurt people's feeling, but it really be

hardly possible to help it, if they will ride out to meet offence in

such a way.'



'yet, Anne,' say her mother, 'you may comfort yourself with know

that as long as you do what be command, set a watch before your lip,

you be not likely to wound the feeling of other, however sensitive.'



'I know, Mamma,' say Anne, 'that would correct every fault of that

kind; but then I hardly know how to do so thoroughly.  and I think

sensitiveness be a good thing--at least, it make people know well

what will hurt other.'



'be sensitive for other, without be ready to take offence for

yourself, then, Anne,' say Lady Merton.  'and now that you have fit

the moral to my story, I must go down and help Mrs. Woodbourne to

entertain Mrs. Hazleby.'



'I pity you,' say Anne.  'if everyone, or indeed if half the world

be like she, I should be more violent in my opinion than Lizzie be.'



'and what be you go to do?' ask Lady Merton.



'I be go to sit in the school-room,' say Anne; 'I have a special

invitation from Dora this morning.'



on go down-stair, Anne find that Katherine and Harriet have go to

spend the morning with the Mrs. Turner mention during the walk to St.

Austin's, as her daughter, Miss Wilhelmina, have engage to teach

Harriet to make wax flower.  Lucy be up-stair, write to Major

Hazleby; and Helen be sit in the school-room, where Elizabeth be

teach the child.  Little Winifred have just finish her lesson,

and be skip off in high glee with her medal round her neck, to

tell her mamma that she have gain four good mark.  Dora be perch

on a high stool, at Elizabeth's desk, with a broadly rule paper before

she, on the top of which the word, 'my dear Horace, St. Austin's

Church be consecrate yesterday,' be to be see in fair round hand.

no more be visible, for the little girl laughingly lay down her rosy

cheek, and all her light wavy curl, flat upon the letter, as  Anne

advance and make a stealthy attempt to profit by the intelligence she

be send to her brother.  Edward be stand by Elizabeth, read

Mrs. Trimmer's Fabulous Histories, for, though five year old, he make

very slow progress in english literature, be more backward in

learn to read than any of the other have be, except Helen.  he

do not like the trouble of spelling, and be in the habit of guess

at every word he do not know; and on his very composedly call old

Joe the gardener, 'the old gander,' Anne burst into an irrepressible

giggle, and Helen, sedate as she be, could not help follow she

example.  they have just compose themselves, when Edward make another

blunder, which set they off again, and Elizabeth, who when alone with

the child, could bear anything with become gravity, also give way.



Edward, find that he be divert they, begin to make absurd

mistake on purpose, so that Elizabeth be force to call he to order.

Anne think it well to leave the room, and Helen follow she, say,

'we have well leave Lizzie to manage he by herself; she always do

well without I.'



'you have never shew I your drawing, Helen,' say Anne; 'I should

like very much to see they, if you will let I.'



'if you please,' say Helen.  'will you come up to my room?  I keep all

my own thing there, out of the way of the critic.'



'what critic?' inquire Anne.



'Lizzie, to be sure, and Papa,' say Helen; 'I think they the severe

people I know.'



'do you indeed!' say Anne.



'do not you?' say Helen; 'do not lizzie say the sharp thing

possible?  I be sure she do to I, and she never like anything I do.

if there be any little fault in it, she and Papa always look at that,

rather than anything else.'



'well,' say Anne, 'it be a comfort that if they like anything you do,

you be sure it be really very good.  their praise be worth more than

that of other people.'



Helen sigh, but make no reply, as by this time they have arrive at

the door of the room which she share with Katherine.  it be a

complete contrast to Elizabeth's; it be large and light, and look

out upon the bright garden, the alm-house, and the church tower.  the

upper part of the window be occupy by Katherine's large cage of

canary bird, and below be a stand of flower-pot, a cactus which

never dream of blossoming, an ice-plant, and a columnia belong to

Katherine, a nourishing daphne of Helen's, and a verbena, and a few

geranium cutting which she have bring from dykeland, look very

miserable under crack tumbler and stemless wine-glass.  on a small

round table be, very prettily arrange, various little knicknack and

curiosity, which Elizabeth always laugh at, such as a glass ship,

which be surround with miniature watering-pot, humming-top, knife

and fork, a tonbridge-ware box, a gold-stud horn bonbonniere, a

Breakwater-marble ruler, several variety of pincushion, a pen-wiper

with a doll in the middle of it, a little dish of money-cowrie, and

another of indian shot, the seed of the mahogany tree, some sea-egg, a

false book make of the wreck of the Royal George, and some piece of

spar and petrifaction which Helen have acquire on an expedition to

Matlock with the staunton.  the book-shelf, however, be to Anne the

most attractive object in the room; and whilst Helen be untie the

string of her portfolio, she go up to it.



'what a beautiful little Bishop Wilson!' exclaim she, take out one

of the book.



'yes,' say Helen with a sigh, 'that be dear Mrs. Staunton's last

present to I before I leave dykeland.  she say that perhaps she

should not see I again before I be confirm, and it be the fit

Godmother's gift she could find.'



'and be this pretty Lady of the Lake yours too?' say Anne; 'what a

pretty binding, with the Douglas arm on it!'



'yes,' say Helen, 'that be Fanny's present; and Jane give I the

pretty forget-I-not brooch I wear yesterday.  you see I have plenty of

keep-sake from the dear people.'



Anne then turn to the portfolio on the table.  Helen shew she, in

the first place, a rather stiff and formal look forget-I-not,

paint by Fanny Staunton, and a carelessly sketch but neatly shade

head draw by Jane, both which specimen of art Anne try hard to

admire for Helen's sake, but could not find it in her heart to do so.

Helen's own drawing, which be landscape, give more promise of

improvement, and display a good deal of taste and freedom of hand,

though some be by no mean correct in the outline. Helen point out

several fault which she candidly acknowledge to be wrong, and some

other which she say 'Lizzie call blunder.'



'there,' say she, 'be the house at dear dykeland; there be my window

with the Banksia rose cluster round it, so that I could gather they

as I stand in my room.  that room be still to be call Helen's.  but

now, Anne, do you think that line ought to be straight? Lizzie say it

should, but I think the perspective alter it; I be sure I see it so.'



'indeed, Helen,' say Anne, 'I think the shadow must have deceive

you.'  and with a little trouble she prove that Elizabeth be right.



'ah!' say Helen, 'if Lizzie would but have shew I patiently, instead

of say, 'why, Helen, cannot you draw a straight line?' I should have

understand she.'  then she continue, while take out India-rubber and

pencil to rectify the mistake, 'I use to draw a great deal at dear

dykeland; we have a sketching master, and use to go out with he twice

a week, but it be very delightful when we three go alone, when one

of we use to read while the other draw. I be sure these sketch will

for ever remind I of those happy day.'



'why, Helen,' say Anne, smile, 'you speak as if you never mean to

be happy again.'



'do I?' say poor Helen; 'I be afraid I do seem rather silly about dear

dykeland.  the other day I be singe



     "my heart's in the Highlands, my heart be not here,

      my heart's in the Highlands, gone chase the deer,"



when in come Lizzie, and say, "no, Helen,



      your heart be at dykeland, your heart's in the bog,

      your heart be at dykeland, gone chase the frog,"



for she be always laugh at it for be so damp, dear place.  and it

be before Horace go to school, and he would do nothing but sing it

at I all day, and make winifred do so too.'



Anne could not help laugh.



'then you too think I absurd,' say Helen; 'but if you only know how

happy I be at dykeland, and how desolate I sometimes feel here, you

would not wonder at I.'



'then you do not like Abbeychurch?' say Anne incredulously; she could

not say 'you be not happy at home.'



'who could prefer a little dismal town to a pleasant house in the

country?' say Helen; 'you like Merton Hall well than this place, do

not you, Anne?'



'of course,' reply Anne; 'but then Merton Hall be my home.'



'and Abbeychurch be mine,' sigh poor Helen.  'I believe it be very

wrong to be discontent with home, but I cannot help it.'



'my dear Helen, what do you mean?' exclaim Anne, quite aghast.



'indeed, Anne,' say Helen, 'I do not wonder that you be shocked, but

you do not know how I feel here.  at Dykelands I feel that people like

I and be pleased with I, but at home nobody want I, nobody care

for I, I be in the way wherever I go.'



'my dear Helen,' cry Anne, 'that must be fancy!'



'I wish it be,' say poor Helen, shake her head.



'but only think,' proceed Anne, 'what you be accuse they of. not

love you, and wish you away.'



'no, I do not say it be as bad as that,' say Helen; 'but I be sure I

be of no use here, and might as well be away.'



'I suppose,' say Anne, 'that you have be so long away as to have

lose all your old home occupation, and you have not yet have time to

make new one.'



'perhaps it be so,' say Helen; 'but I do not think I have any

occupation before I go to dykeland, at least none worth have, and

now I cannot make myself new one.  Lizzie do everything, and will

not let I help she, for fear I should do mischief.'



'now, Helen,' say Anne, who have by this time collect her idea,

which have be completely startle by her cousin's avowal of dislike of

home, 'I will tell you what I think Mamma would say to you.  I think

you use to be indolent and waste your sense, but now dykeland have

give you a spur, and you be very much improve.'



'do you really think so?' interrupt Helen, who have lately feel quite

starve for want of praise.



'yes,' say Anne, 'and so do everyone, and so Lizzie tell I.'



'lizzie?' say Helen; 'I think she consider I as great a baby as

ever.'



'no, no, my dear,' say Anne; 'I will tell you what she say of you.

she say you be almost all she could wish in a sister, and that you

be quite a reflective creature; and that be high praise from she.'



'well, if she think so,' say Helen, 'she do not shew it; she be

always make game of my opinion and feeling.'



'so she do of almost everyone's,' say Anne; 'but that be no proof

that she do not love they.'



'and she will never listen to anything that I say, or take interest in

anything I care for,' continue Helen.



'indeed, Helen, you only think so because you do not understand she

way,' say Anne; 'all last month she could think of nothing but the

Consecration, and Horace's go to school.  now all that be over and

you be quiet again, after we be go you will get on capitally

together.'



'I be sure she contradict every word I say,' say Helen.



'that be not out of unkindness, I assure you,' say Anne, who

unfortunately could not deny that such be the fact.  'she only like

an argument, which sharpen your wit, and do no harm, if both side

be but good-humour and cheerful.  she will find you out in time, and

you will understand she well.'



'oh! Lizzie be delightful when she do not contradict,' say Helen;

'she be clever than anyone I ever see, even than Fanny Staunton, and

Papa say her patience and diligence with Horace be beyond all

praise; but I can never be clever enough for she to make I her friend.'



'but you do not think people choose their friend only for their

cleverness?' say Anne.



'why, no,' say Helen, 'I do not think they ought, but Lizzie do. you

would not be her friend if you be not clever.'



'well,' say Anne, 'but try and convince she that you can be her friend

without be clever, if you will not allow that you be.'



'oh!' say Helen, brighten up, 'if Lizzie would but make a friend of

I, how happy we should be! if she would but talk to I of her own

concern, and listen to mine!  but she never choose to hear I speak

of dykeland.'



'then,' say Anne, 'you must remember that she have never be there,

and do not know the people.'



'yes,' say Helen; 'but I think that if she have be there, and I at

home, I should have listen for her sake, besides that Mrs. Staunton

be our own mamma's dear friend.'



Anne have always think that her own mother have be Aunt Katherine's

dearest friend; but she have forbearance enough to leave the honour to

Mrs. Staunton in Helen's imagination, and answer, 'and for that very

reason, and for your sake too, Helen, she will delight to hear about

Mrs. Staunton when you be quiet together, if you do not give she too

much at a time, or talk of Dykelands when she be think of something

else.  oh yes, Helen, you and Lizzie will be excellent friend, unless

you be much more silly than I think either of you.'



Anne smile so cheerfully, that Helen could not help smile too; but

she would probably have find another sorrow to lament over, if at this

moment Dora have not come up to summon they to their early dinner.



Helen feel exceedingly grateful to Anne for having listen so kindly

and patiently to her list of grievance.  it be the first sympathy, as

she consider, that she have meet with since she have leave dykeland, and

it atone in her mind for various little thoughtless way of Anne's,

which have wound she in former year, and which she have not perhaps

strive sufficiently to banish from her memory; and this be a great

advantage from this conversation, even if she derive no far

benefit from it.



on her side, Anne have some thought of tell Elizabeth what Helen's

feeling really be, in hope that she might shew a little regard for

they; but, sisterless herself, she think the bond of sisterhood too

sacred to be rashly interfere with by a stranger's hand; besides, she

consider Helen's complaint as really confidential, if not expressly

so, and resolve to mention they to no one but Lady Merton, and to

limit her attempt at be useful to bring the two sister before

each other in their most amiable light, and at any rate to avoid say

anything that could possibly occasion a discussion between they, though

she could hardly imagine that it be possible to dislike one of the

merry argument that she delight in. however, remember her

mother's story of Mrs. Staunton, she decide that though it be a great

misfortune for people to have such strange fancy, yet their friend

ought to respect they.









CHAPTER VII.





as soon as dinner be over, Elizabeth go up to her own room, and be

follow in a few moment by Anne, who find she put on her bonnet

and cloak.  'can you be go out in such weather as this?' exclaim

she.



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'I must



          "let content with my fortune fit,

           though the rain it raineth every day."'





'but what be the fortune which oblige you to go out?' say Anne.



'the fortune of an old woman to whom Kate or I read every Friday,'

say Elizabeth, 'and the fortune of various young school-child, who

must be prepare for Papa or Mr. Walker to catechize in Church on

Sunday.'



'why do not you send Kate or Helen, instead of murder yourself in

the wet?' say Anne.



'Miss Kitty be three inch deep in the mystery of a spencer, (I do

not mean Edmund,)' say Elizabeth, 'and it will not be out of her head

these three day, at least not till she have make Mamma's old black

satin gown into one after Harriet's pattern; I hear she ask for it

as I come up-stair.'



'and would not Helen go?' say Anne; 'she do not catch cold as easily

as you do.'



'Helen have contrive, somehow or other,' say Elizabeth, 'to know no

more about the school-child than if they be so many Esquimaux;

besides, anyone with any experience of Helen's way, have rather walk

ninety mile in the rain, than be at the pain of route she out of

the corner of the sofa to do anything useful.'



'indeed,' say Anne, 'I think Helen do wish to make herself useful.'



'I dare say she sit still and wish it in the abstract, for I think

it must be a very disagreeable thing to reflect that she might as well

be that plaster statue for any good that she do,' say Elizabeth;

'but she grumble at every individual thing you propose for she to do,

just as she say she wish to be a companion to Dora and Winifred, yet

whenever they wish she to play with they or tell they a story, which be

all the companionship child of their age understand, she be always

too much at her ease to be disturb.  and now, as she be the only

person in the house with whom poor Lucy be tolerably at her ease, it

would be cruel to take she away.'



'that be more of a reason,' say Anne; 'what a pity it be that Lucy be

so shy!'



'excessive shyness and reserve be what prevent her mother from be

able to spoil she,' say Elizabeth; 'so do not regret it.'



'still I do not like to see you go out in this way,' say Anne.



'I may truly say that rain never hurt I,' say Elizabeth; 'and if I

once let one trifle stop I in these parish matter, I shall be stop

for ever, and never do anything.  perhaps I shall not come back this

hour and a half, for old Mrs. Clayton must be die to hear all about

our Consecration, luncheon, dinner, &c., and as she be the widow of the

last Vicar, we be in duty bind to be civil to she, and I must go and

call upon she.  oh! you poor thing, I forget how deserted you will be,

and really the drawing-room be almost uninhabitable with that bengal

tiger in it.  here be that delightful Norman Conquest for you to read;

pray look at the part about Hereward the Saxon.'



Elizabeth would not trust herself to stay with Anne any long, and run

down-stair, and might soon be hear put up her umbrella and

shut the front door after she.



Anne find the afternoon pass rather heavily, in spite of the

companionship of William the Conqueror and Hereward the Saxon, of

assist the child in a wet day game of romp, and of shew Dora

and winifre the content of the box they have admire the day before.

Helen and Lucy be sit at work very comfortably in the corner of

the sofa in the inner drawing-room; Harriet and Katherine very busy

contrive the spencer in the front drawing-room, keep up a

whispering accompaniment to the conversation of the elder lady--if

conversation it could be call, when Mrs. Hazleby have it all to

herself, while give Lady Merton and Mrs. Woodbourne an account of the

discomfort she have experience in country quarter in Ireland.



Sir Edward and Mr. Woodbourne be engage in look over the account

of the church in the study, and Fido be try to settle his dispute

with Meg Merrilies, who, with arch back, tail erect, and eye like

flame green glass, wage a continual war with he over her basket in

the hall.



Anne be very glad to hear her cousin's footstep in the hall as she

return.  come straight to the drawing-room, Elizabeth exclaim,

'Mamma, do you tell Mrs. Clarke that she might have a frock for Susan?'



'yes, my dear,' say Mrs. Woodbourne; 'she ask I yesterday when you

be not near, and I tell she you would give her one.  I think the

child look very ragged.'



'I suppose she must have it,' say Elizabeth, look much vex; 'I

tell she she should not, a month ago, unless she send the child to

school regularly, and they have scarcely be there five day in the

last fortnight.'



'I wish I have know it, my dear,' say Mrs. Woodbourne; 'you know I be

always very sorry to interfere with any of your plan.'



'o Mamma, there be no great harm do,' say Elizabeth.  she then go

to fetch the frock, and give it to the woman with a more gentle and

sensible rebuke than could have be expect from the vehemence of her

manner towards Mrs. Woodbourne a minute before.  when this be do,

and she have take off her bonnet, she come to beckon Anne up-stair.



'so you have finish your labour,' say Anne, take up her work,

while Elizabeth sit down to rule a copy-book for Winifred.



'yes,' say Elizabeth, '"we be free to sport and play;" I have read to

the old woman, and cram the child, and give old Mrs. Clayton a

catalogue raisonnee of all the company and all their dress, and a

bill of fare of our luncheon and dinner, and where everything come

from.'



'and yet you profess to hold gossip in abomination,' say Anne.



'oh! but this be old gossip, regular legitimate amusement for the poor

old lady,' say Elizabeth.  'she really be a lady, but very badly off,

and most of the Abbeychurch gentility be too fine to visit she, so

that a little quiet chat with she be by no mean of the common-place

kind.  besides, she know and love we all like her own child.  it

be one of the first pleasure I can remember, to gather rose for she,

and carry they to she from her own old garden here.'



'well, in consideration of all that you say,' say Anne, 'I suppose I

must forgive she for keep you away all this afternoon.'



'and what do you do all that time?' say Elizabeth.  'have you read

Hereward, and do not you delight in he?'



'yes,' say Anne, 'and I want to know whether he be not the father of

Cedric of Rotherwood.'



'he must have be his grandfather,' say Elizabeth; 'Cedric live a

hundred year after.'



'but Cedric remember Torquilstone before the Normans come,' say Anne.



'no, no, he could not, though he have be tell what it have be before

Front-de-Boeuf alter it,' say Elizabeth.



'and old Ulrica be there when Front-de-Boeuf's father take it,' say

Anne.



'I cannot tell how long a hag may live,' say Elizabeth, 'but she could

not have be less than a hundred and thirty year old in the time of

Richard Coeur-de-Lion.'



'Coeur-de-Lion come to the throne in 1189,' say Anne.  'no, I suppose

Torquil Wolfganger could not have be dispossess immediately after

the Conquest.  but then you know Ulrica call Cedric the son of the

great Hereward.'



'her wit be a little out of order,' say Elizabeth; 'either she

mean his grandson, or Sir Walter Scott make as great an anachronism as

when he make that same Ulrica compare Rebecca's skin to paper.  if she

have say parchment, it would not have be such a compliment.'



'how much interest Ivanhoe make we take in the Saxons and Normans!'

say Anne.



'and what nonsense it be to say that work of fiction give a distaste

for history,' say Elizabeth.



'you be an instance to the contrary,' say Anne; 'no one love story

so well, and no one love history well.'



'I believe such story as Ivanhoe be what teach I to like

history,' say Elizabeth.



'in order to find out the anachronism in they?' say Anne; 'I think it

be very ungrateful of you.'



'no indeed,' say Elizabeth; 'why, they use to be the only history I

know, and almost the only geography.  do not you remember Aunt Anne's

laugh at I for argue that Bohemia be on the Baltic, because

Perdita be leave on its coast?  and now, I believe that Coeur de Lion

feast with Robin Hood and his merry man, although history tell I

that he dislike and despise the English, and the only sentence of

their language history record of his uttering be, "he speak like a

fool Briton."  I believe that Queen Margaret of Anjou haunt the

scene of grandeur that once be her, and that she live to see the

fall of Charles of Burgundy, and die when her last hope fail she,

though I know that it be not so.'



'then I do not quite see how such story have teach you to like

history,' say Anne.



'they teach we to realize and understand the people whom we find in

history,' say Elizabeth.



'oh yes,' say Anne; 'who would care for Louis the eleventh if it be

not for Quentin Durward? and Shakespeare make we feel as if we have

be at the battle of Shrewsbury.'



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'and they have do even more for history. they

have teach we to imagine other hero whom they have not mention.

cannot you see the Black Prince, his slight graceful figure, his fair

delicate face full of gentleness and kindness--fierce warrior as he

be--his black steel helmet, and tippet of chain-mail, his clustering

white plume, his surcoat with England's leopard and France's lily?

cannot you make a story of his long constant attachment to his

beautiful cousin, the Fair Maid of Kent?  cannot you imagine his

courteous conference with Bertrand du Guesclin, the brave ugly

Breton?--Edward lie almost helpless on his couch, break down with

suffering and disappointment, and the noble affectionate Captal de

Buch, who die of grief for he, think whether he will ever be able

to wear his black armour again, and carry terror and dismay to the

stout heart of France.'



'give Froissart some of the credit of your picture,' say Anne.



'Froissart be in some place like Sir Walter himself,' say Elizabeth;

'but now I will tell you of a person who live in no day of romance,

and have not have the advantage of a poetical historian to light he up

in our imagination.  I mean the great Prince of Conde. now, though he

be very unlike Shakespeare's Coriolanus, yet there be resemblance

enough between they to make the comparison very amusing. there be much

of Coriolanus' indomitable pride and horror of mob popularity when he

offend Beaufort and his kingdom in the halle, when, though as 'Louis

de Bourbon' he refuse to do anything to shake the power of the throne,

he would not submit to be patronize by the mean fawn Mazarin.  not

that the hard-hearted Conde would have listen to his wife and mother,

even if he have love they as Coriolanus do, or that his arrogance do

not degenerate into wonderful meanness at last, such as Coriolanus

would have scorn; but the parallel be very amusing, and give I a

great interest in Conde.  and do you ever observe what a great

likeness there be in the character of the two apostate, Julian and

Frederick the Great?'



'then you like history for the sake of compare the character

mention in it?' say Anne.



'I think so,' say Elizabeth; 'and that be the reason I hate

abridgement, the mere bare bone of history.  I cannot bear dry fact,

such as that Charles the Fifth beat Francis the First, at Pavia, in a

war for the duchy of Milan, and nothing more tell about they.  I be

always ready to say, as the Grand Seignior do about some such great

battle among the Christians, that I do not care whether the dog bite

the hog, or the hog bite the dog.'



'what a kind interest in your fellow-creature you display!' say Anne.

'I think one reason why I like history be because I be search out

all the character who come up to my notion of perfect chivalry, or

rather of christian perfection.  I be make a book of true knight.  I

copy their portrait when I can find they, and write the name of those

whose likeness I cannot get.  I paint their armorial bearing over

they when I can find out what they be, and I have a great red cross in

the first page.'



'and I will tell you of something else to put at the beginning,' say

Elizabeth, 'a branch of laurel entwine with the beautiful white

bind-weed.  one of our laurel be cover with wreath of it last

year, and I think it be a beautiful emblem of a pure-hearted hero.

the glare sun, which wither the fair white spotless flower, be like

worldly prosperity spoil the pure simple mind; and you know how

often it be despise and tear away from the laurel to which it be so

bright an ornament.'



'yes,' say Anne, 'it cling more safely and fearlessly round the

simple and most despise of plant.  and would you call the little

pink bindweed childish innocence?'



'no, I do not think I should,' say Elizabeth, 'it be not sufficiently

stainless.  but then innocence, from not see or know what be

wrong, be not like the guilelessness which can use the world as not

abuse it.'



'yet Adam and Eve fall when they gain the knowledge of good and

evil,' say Anne.



'yes, because they gain their knowledge by do evil,' say

Elizabeth, 'but you must allow that what be try and not find wanting

be superior to what have fail only because it have have no trial.  St.

John's Day be place near Christmas than that of the Holy Innocents.'



'and St. John know what evil be,' say Anne; 'yes you be right there.'



'you speak as if you still have some fault to find with I, Anne,' say

Elizabeth.



'no, indeed I have not,' say Anne, 'I quite agree with you; it be

only your speaking of knowledge of evil we a kind of advantage, that

startle I.'



'because you think knowledge and discernment my idol,' say Elizabeth;

'but we have wander far away from my white convolvulus, and I have

not do with it yet.  when autumn come, and the leave turn bright

yellow, it be a golden crown.'



'but there your comparison end,' say Anne; 'the laurel ought to

vanish away, and leave the golden wreath behind.'



'no,' say Elizabeth; 'call the golden wreath the crown of glory on the

brow of the old saint-like hero, and remember that when he die, the

immortality the world prize be that of the coarse evergreen laurel,

and no one dream of his white wreath.'



'I wish you would make a poem of your comparison, for the beginning of

my book of chivalry,' say Anne.



'it will not do,' say Elizabeth, 'I be no poet; besides, if I wish

to try, just consider what a name the flower have--con-vol-vu-lus, a

prosaic, dragging, botanical term, a mile long.  then bindweed only

remind I of smother and fetter raspberry bush, and a great hoe.

Lily, as the country people call it, be not distinguish enough,

besides that no one ever hear of a climbing lily.  but, Anne, do tell

I whom you have in your book of knight.  I know of a good many in the

real heroic age, but tell I some of the later one.'



'Lord Exmouth,' say Anne; 'I be sure he be a true knight.'



'and the Vendeen leader, I suppose,' say Elizabeth.



'yes, I have write the name of M. de Lescure and of Henri de la

Rochejaquelein; I wish I know where to find their picture, and I want

a prussian patriot.  I think the Baron de la Motte Fouque, who be a

Knight of St. John, and who think so much of true chivalry, would

come in very well.'



'I do not know anything about himself,' say Elizabeth, 'though,

certainly, no one but a true knight could have write Sintram.  I be

afraid there be no leader good enough for you among the spanish

patriot in the Peninsular war.'



'I do not know,' say Anne; 'I admire Don Jose Palafox for his defence

of Zaragoza, but I know nothing more of he, and there be no chance of

my get his portrait.  I be in great want of Cameron of Lochiel, or

Lord Nithsdale, or derwentwater; for Claverhouse be the only Jacobite

leader I can find a portrait of, and I be afraid the blood of the

Covenanters be a blot on his escutcheon, a stain on his white wreath.'



'I be sorry you have nothing to say to bonnie Dundee,' say Elizabeth,

'for really, between the Whiggery and stupidity of England, and the

wickedness of France, good people be scarce from Charles the Martyr to

George the Third.  how I hate that part of history!  oh! but there be

Prince Eugene and the Vicomte de Turenne.'



'Prince Eugene behave very well to Marlborough in his adversity,' say

Anne: 'but I do not like people to take affront and abandon their

native country.'



'oh! but Savoy be more his country than France,' say Elizabeth,

'however, I do not know enough about he to make it worth while to

fight for he.'



'and as to Turenne,' say Anne, 'I do not like the little I know of

he; he be horribly cruel, be he not?'



'oh! every soldier be cruel in those day,' say Elizabeth; 'it be

the custom of their time, and they could not help it.'



Anne shake her head.



'then you will be force to give up my beloved Black Prince,' continue

Elizabeth piteously; 'you know he massacre the people at Limoges.'



'I cannot do without he,' say Anne; 'he be ill and very much

exasperate at the time, and I choose to believe that the massacre be

command by John of Gaunt.'



'and I choose to believe that all the cruelty of the French be by

the express order of Louis Quatorze,' say Elizabeth; 'you cannot be

hard on a man who give all his money and offer to pawn his plate to

bring Charles the Second back to England.'



'I must search and consider,' say Anne; 'I will hunt he out when I go

home, and if we have a print of he, and if he be tolerably

good-look, I will see what I can do with he.'



'you have Lodge's portrait,' say Elizabeth, 'so you be well off for

Cavaliers; do you mean to take Prince Rupert in compliment to your

brother?'



'no, he be not good enough, I be afraid,' say Anne, 'though besides

our own Vandyke there be a most tempting print of he, in Lodge, with a

buff coat and work ruffle; but though I use to think he the

great of hero, I have give he up, and mean to content myself

with Charles himself, the two Lindsays, Ormond and Strafford, Derby and

Capel, and Sir Ralph Hopton.'



'and Montrose, and the Marquis of Winchester,' say Elizabeth; 'you

must not forget the noblest of all.'



'I only forget to mention they,' say Anne, 'I could not leave they

out.  the only difficulty be whom to choose among the Cavaliers.'



'and who come next?' say Elizabeth.



'Gustavus Adolphus and Sir Philip Sydney.'



'do not mention they together, they be no pair,' say Elizabeth. 'what

a pity it be that Sir Philip be a euphuist.'



'forgive he for that failing, in consideration of his speech at

Zutphen,' say Anne.



'only that speech be so hackneyed and commonplace,' say Elizabeth, 'I

be tired of it.'



'the deed be not common-place,' say Anne.



'no, and dandyism be as entirely the fault of his time as cruelty be

of Turenne's,' say Elizabeth; 'Sir Walter Raleigh be bad than

Sydney, and Surrey quite as bad, to judge by his picture.'



'it be not quite as bad a fault as cruelty,' say Anne, 'little as you

seem to think of the last.'



'now come the chivalric age,' say Elizabeth; 'never mind tell I

all the name, only say who be the first of your hero--neither

Orlando nor Sir Galahad, I suppose.'



'no, nor Huon de Bordeaux,' say Anne.



'the Cid, then, I suppose,' say Elizabeth, 'unless he be too fierce

for your tender heart.'



'Ruy, mi Cid Campeador?' say Anne, 'I must have he in consideration

of his noble conduct to the King who banish he, and the speech the

ballad give he:



          "for vassal' vengeance on their lord,

             though just, be treason still;

           the noble blood be his, who well

             bear undeserve ill."





and the loyalty he shew in make the King clear himself of have

any share in his brother's death, even though Alphonso be silly enough

to be affront.'



'like Montrose's feeling towards his lady-love,' say Elizabeth; 'not

bear the least stain on what he love or honour.'



'but he be not our early knight,' say Anne; 'I begin with our own

Alfred, with his blue shield and golden cross.'



'King Alfred!' exclaim Elizabeth, 'do you consider he a knight?'



'certainly,' say Anne; 'besides that I care more for the spirit of

chivalry than for the etiquette of the accolade and golden spur; we

know that Alfred knight his grandson Athelstane, so that he must have

be a knight himself.'



'by-the-bye,' say Elizabeth, 'I think I have find out the origin of

the golden spur be part of a knight's equipment.  do you remember

when the Cid's beloved king Don Sancho be kill, that Rodrigo could

not overtake the traitor Bellido Dolfos, because he have no spur on,

whereupon he curse every knight who should for the future ride without

they.  now that be at the time when the law of chivalry be

attain their perfection, but--'



'not so fast,' say Anne; 'I have a much early pair of golden spur

for you.  do not you remember Edmund, the last king of East Anglia,

be betray to the Danish wedding-party at Hoxne, by the glitter of

his golden spur, and curse every new married pair who should ever

pass over the bridge where he be find.  I think that make for my

side of the question.  here be edmund, a knight in golden spur when

Alfred be a child.  ah ha, Miss Lizzie!'



before Elizabeth could answer, Winifred come to tell she that her mamma

want she, and she be force to leave the question of King Alfred's

and King Edmund's chivalry undecided; for, to her praise be it speak,

she be much too useful a person ever to be able to pursue her own

peculiar diversion for many minute together.  she have to listen to

some direction, and undertake some message, so that she could not

return to her own room till after Anne have go down-stair.  she

herself be not ready till just as the elder be set off to the

dinner-party at Marlowe Court, and rejoice in the cessation of the

rain and the fineness of the evening.



about half an hour afterwards, the young lady assemble in the inner

drawing-room to drink tea.  Helen, however, remain in the outer

drawing-room, practise her music, regardless of the sound of mirth

that proceed from the other room, until Elizabeth open the door,

call out,



     '"Sweet bird, that shunnest the noise of folly,

       most musical, most melancholy,"



come in to tea, so please your highness.'



'what can you mean?' say Helen; 'I be sure I be not melancholy.'



'I be sure you shun the noise of folly,' say Elizabeth.



'I be sorry you consider all our merriment as folly,' say Anne, hope

to save Helen.



'indeed I do not,' say Elizabeth; 'it be no more folly than a

kitten's play, and quite as much in the natural course of thing.'



'Helen's occupation be out of the natural course of thing,' say

Anne, 'I should think she be well employ than we be.'



'in make a noise,' say Elizabeth; 'so be we, I do not see much

difference.'



'O Lizzie, it be not the same thing!' say Helen, exceedingly

mortified at be laugh at for what she consider as a heroic piece

of self-denial, and so it be, though perhaps not so great in she as it

would have be in one who be less musical, and more addicted to the

noise of folly.



'how touchy Helen be this evening!' think Elizabeth; 'I have well

let she alone, both for her sake and my own.'



'how foolish I be to interfere!' think Anne; 'it be the most

awkward thing I ever do; I only rouse the spirit of contradiction,

and do Helen more harm than good; I never will meddle between sister

again.'



presently after, Elizabeth ask Harriet Hazleby whether she have ever

be at Winchester.



'yes,' be the answer, 'and a dull place I would not wish to see.'



'it be a handsome old town, be it not?' inquire Anne, turn to Lucy;

but Harriet catch up the word, and exclaim, 'handsome, indeed!  I do

not think there be one tolerable new look street in the whole place,

except one or two house just up by the railroad station.'



Anne still look towards Lucy, as if await her answer; Lucy

reply, 'the Cathedral and College and the old gateway be very

beautiful, but there be not so many old look house as you would

expect.'



'it must be badly off indeed,' say Elizabeth, 'if it have neither old

house nor new; but I want to know whether William Rufus' monument be

in a tolerable state of preservation.'



'oh! the monument be very grand indeed,' say Harriet; 'everyone

admire they.  there be the head of some of the old king most

beautifully paint, put away in a dark corner.  they be very curious

thing indeed; I wonder they do not bring they out.'



'those be the head of the Stuart king,' whisper Lucy.



'why, Harriet,' exclaim Dora, 'William Rufus be not a Stuart, he be

the second of the Normans.'



'very likely, very likely, Dora, my dear,' answer Harriet; 'I have

do with all those thing now, thank goodness; I only know that see

the Cathedral be good fun; I do not like go into the crypt, I

say I would not go, when I see how dark it be; and Frank Hollis say

I should, and it be such fun!'



Dora open her eye very wide, and Elizabeth say, 'there could

certainly never be a well time or place.'



look up, she see poor Lucy's burn cheek, and be sorry she have

not be silent.  no one speak for a few moment, but presently Anne

say, 'Alfred the Great be not bury in the Cathedral, be he?'



no one could tell; at last Helen say, 'I remember read that he be

bury in Hyde Abbey, which be now pull down.'



'there be a street at Winchester, call Hyde Street,' say Lucy.



'yes, I know,' say Harriet, 'where the Bridewell be, I remember--'



'by-the-bye, Anne,' say Elizabeth, anxious to cut short Harriet's

reminiscence, 'I never answer what you say about Alfred and

Athelstane.  I do not think that Alfred do more than present he with

his sword, which be always solemnly do, even to squire, before they

be allow to fight, and might be do by a priest.'



'but when Athelstane be call a knight, and the ceremony of present

he with his weapon be mention,' say Anne, 'I cannot see why we

should not consider he to have be really knight.'



'because,' say Elizabeth, 'I do not think that the old Saxon word,

knight, mean the sworn champion, the devoted warrior of noble birth,

which it now express.  you know Canute's old rhyme say, "row  to the

shore, knight," as if they be boatman, and not gentleman.'



'I do not think it could have be beneath the dignity of a knight to

row Canute,' say Anne, 'consider that eight king row Edgar the

Peaceable.'



'other thing prove that Knight mean a servant, in Saxon,' say

Elizabeth.



'I know it do sometimes, as in German now,' say Anne; 'but the

question be, when it acquire a meaning equivalent in dignity to the

French Chevalier.'



'though it properly mean anything but a horseman,' say Elizabeth; 'we

ought to have a word answer to the German Ritter.'



'yes, our language be spoil by be mix with French before it have

come to its perfection,' say Anne; 'but still you have not prove that

King Alfred be not a knight in the high sense of the word, a preux

chevalier.'



'I never hear of Alfred on horseback, nor do I ever know he call

Sir Alfred of Wessex.'



'Sir be french, and short for seigneur or senior,' say Anne; 'besides,

I suppose, you never hear Coeur-de-Lion call Sir Richard

Plantagenet.'



'I will tell you how you may find out all about it,' interrupted

Katherine; 'Mrs. Turner's nephew, Mr. Augustus Mills, be go to give

a lecture this evening, at seven o'clock, upon chivalry, and all that.

Mrs. Turner have be tell we all day how much she wish we to go.'



'Mr. Augustus Mills!' say Elizabeth; 'be he the little red-haired

wretch who use to pester I about dance all last year?'



'no, no,' say Katherine, 'that be Mr. Adolphus Mills, his brother,

who be go to be clerk to an attorney somewhere.  this be Mr.

Augustus, a very fine young man, and so clever, Willie say, and he have

most beautiful curl black hair.'



'it want a quarter to seven now,' say Elizabeth, 'and the sky be most

beautifully clear, at last.  do you like the thought of this lecture,

Anne?'



'I should like to go very much indeed,' say Anne; 'but first I must go

and seal and send some letter for Mamma, so I must depart while you

finish your tea.'  so say, she leave the room.



'pray, Kate,' say Helen, as Anne close the door, 'where be this

lecture to be give?'



'at the Mechanics' Institute, of course,' say Katherine.



'so we cannot go,' say Helen.



'and pray why not, my sapient sister?' say Elizabeth; 'what objection

have your high mightiness?'



'my dear Lizzie,' say Helen, 'I wish you have hear all that I have

hear, at dykeland, about Mechanics' Institutes.'



'my dear Helen,' say Elizabeth, 'I wish you would learn that dykeland

be no Delphos to I.'



'Nay, but my dear sister,' exclaim Helen, clasp her hand, 'do

but listen to I; I be sure that harm will come of your go.'



'well, ope your lip, Sir Oracle,' say Elizabeth impatiently, 'no dog

shall bark, only make haste about it, or we shall be too late.'



'do you not know, Lizzie,' say Helen, 'that Socialists often hold

forth in Mechanics' Institutes?'



'the abuse of a thing do not cancel its use,' say Elizabeth, 'and I

do not suppose that Mr. Mills preach Socialism.'



'Captain Atherley say,' persist Helen, 'that all sort of people

ought not to mix themselves up together on equal term.'



'oh! then he never go to church,' retort Elizabeth.



'no, no, that be only my foolish way of express myself,' say

Helen; 'I mean that he say that it be wrong for Church people to put

themselves on a level with dissenter, or infidel, or Socialists, for

aught they know to the contrary.'



'since you have be in the north, Helen,' say Elizabeth, 'you have

think every third man you meet a Chartist or a Socialist; but as I do

not believe there be specimen of either kind in Abbeychurch, I see no

harm in take our chance of the very few dissenter there be here,

and sit to hear a lecture in company with our own townspeople.'



'really, I think we have well not go without ask leave first,' say

Katherine.



'in the first place,' say Elizabeth, 'there be no one to ask; and

next, I know that Mrs. Turner have offer hundred of time to take we

there, and I suppose Papa would have refuse once for all, if he have

be so very much afraid of our turn Chartists as Helen seem to be.

I can see no reason why we should not go.'



'then you consider my opinion as utterly worthless,' cry Helen,

lose all command of temper, which indeed she have preserve long

than could have be expect.  'I might have know it; you never care

for one word I say.  you will repent it at last, I know you will.'



'it be not that I never care for what you say, Helen,' say Elizabeth,

'it be only when you give I dykeland opinion instead of your own,

and talk of what you do not understand.  I suppose no one have any

objection to a walk, at least.  shall we get ready?'



everyone consent, and they go to prepare.  it should be say, in

excuse for Elizabeth, that both she and Helen have be absent from home

at the time of the establishment of the Mechanics' Institute at

Abbeychurch, so that they have not know of their father's opposition to

it.  Helen, who, when at dykeland, have be near the manufacturing

district, have hear more of the folly and mischief commit by

some of the favourer of these institution. unfortunately, however,

her temper have prevent she from reason calmly, and Elizabeth have

wilfully blind herself, and shut her ear to conviction, be

determined to follow her own course.  Anne, who have always live at

Merton Hall, except two month of each year, which she spend in

London, know nothing of country town cabal, and think the lecture

be of the same nature as those she have hear in London, ask no

question, as she have not hear the debate between Elizabeth and Helen.

Katherine, however, hesitate to go without the permission of her

father and mother; or, in other word, she be afraid they would

reprove she, and she be not unwilling to listen to Helen's

representation on the subject, while they be put on their

bonnet.



'it be not only,' say Helen, 'that we be sure that it be not right to

go anywhere without leave from Papa or Mamma, but that I know that

these Mechanics' institute be part of a system of--'



'oh yes, I know,' say Katherine, 'of Chartism, and Socialism, and all

that be horrible.  I cannot imagine how Lizzie can think of go.'



'then you will not go,' say Helen.



'oh, I do not know,' say Katherine; 'it will seem so odd and so

particular if Anne and Lizzie and the Hazlebys go, and we do not. it

would be like set ourselves up against our elder.'



'you do not always think much of that, Kate,' say Helen; 'besides, if

our eld sister think proper to do wrong, I do not see that we be

force to do so too.'



'well, but Lizzie say it be not wrong, and she be the eld,' argue

Katherine.



'Lizzie say it be not wrong, that she might have her own way, and

contradict I,' say Helen.



'we shall see what Anne say,' say Katherine; 'but if they go, I must,

you know.  it be to I that Mrs. Turner give the invitation, and she

and Willie would think it so odd to see the other without I; and Mr.

Mills too, he say so very politely that he hope that he should be

honour with my presence and Harriet's, it would be an additional

stimulus to his exertion, he say.'



'my dear kate,' exclaim Helen, 'how could you listen to such affected

nonsense?'



'why, Lizzie say everybody talk nonsense,' say Katherine, 'but we

must listen and be civil, you know; I be sure I wish people would not

be so silly, it be very disagreeable to hear it; but I cannot help it,

and after this I really think I ought to go, it would be very odd if I

do not.'



'well do what be odd than what be wrong,' say Helen.



in her secret soul, Katherine have be of the same opinion the whole

time, and now that she think she have make a sufficient merit of

give up the expedition, she be about to promise to follow Helen's

advice, when she be interrupt by the entrance of Harriet, with she

shawl and bonnet in her hand, come to gossip with Katherine, and thus

escape from Lucy, who have be quietly suggest that in a doubtful

case, such as the present seem to be, it be always good to keep to

the safe side.  Harriet have laugh at Lucy for not be able to give

any reason, tell she that it be plain that Helen know nothing about

the matter, and declare that she thank goodness that if Mr.

Woodbourne be ever so angry, he be not her master, and her own mamma

never minded what she do.  Lucy could make no answer in word, but her

silent protest against her sister's conduct make Harriet so uneasy that

she quit she as soon as she could.



Helen still hope that Anne would see the folly of the scheme, and

persuade Elizabeth to give it up, and content herself with take a

walk, or that her sister's well sense would prevail; but she be

disappointed, when, as they leave the house, Anne ask where the

lecture be to be give, Elizabeth reply, 'at the Mechanics'

Institute;' and no further observation be make, Anne's silence

confirm Elizabeth in her idea that Helen have be talk nonsense.

still, as St. Martin's Street, where Mr. Turner live, be their way

out of the town, Helen remain in doubt respect her sister's

intention until they reach Mr. Turner's house, and Elizabeth walk

up the step, and knock at the door.



Helen immediately wheel round, and walk indignantly homeward, too

full of her own feeling to make any attempt to persuade Katherine to

follow her example, and every step shew how grieve and affront

she be.



Lucy lay her hand on her sister's arm, and look up imploringly in

her face.



'Pooh!' say Harriet pettishly, jerk the ribbon by which she be

lead Fido: 'give I one reason, Lucy, and I will come.'



'what Helen say,' answer Lucy.



'stuff and nonsense!' say Harriet; 'that be no reason at all.'



'what do Helen say?' ask Anne, who have be rather startle by her

departure.



'only some Dykelands fancy about Socialists,' say Elizabeth; 'that

be the reason she have go off like a tragedy queen.  I do not think

all Abbeychurch be ready for the French Revolution--that be all.'



'there, Lucy, you see,' say Harriet; 'come along, there's a good girl.'



here Mrs. Turner's page open the door, and answer that his mistress

be at home.



'Dora, my dear,' say Elizabeth, 'this be too late an affair for you;

we shall not be at home till after you be go to bed.

good-night--run after Helen.'



Dora obey, and Lucy also turn away; Katherine linger.  'come,

Kate,' say Harriet, mount the step. --'Lucy, you nonsensical girl,

come back; everyone can see you out of the window; it be very rude,

now; if Mrs. Turner see you, what will she think?  Mamma would be very

angry to see you so silly.  come back, I tell you!'



Lucy only look back, and shake her head, and then hasten away; but

Katherine, fear that her friend would be irrecoverably offend if

she turn away from their house, think that she have go too far to

recede, and trust to Elizabeth to shield she from blame, follow

the other up-stair.



Helen turn back, much surprised, as Lucy and Dora overtake she; and

they hasten to give explanation.



'Lizzie say I have well come home,' say Dora.



'and I think it would be the safe thing to do,' say Lucy.



'I be very glad of it,' say Helen; 'I be sure it be not right to go,

but when Lizzie have once set her mind on anything, she will listen to

no one.'



'then do you think Papa and Mamma will be displease?' say Dora; 'I do

not think Lizzie think so.'



'I cannot be quite sure,' say Helen; 'but I do not think Lizzie

choose to believe that they will.'



'but let I understand you, Helen,' say Lucy; 'I only know that you

think that Uncle Woodbourne would not approve of your going.  what be

your reason for thinking so?  I do not clearly understand you.

church-people and dissenter put themselves on a level in almost every

public place.'



'they do not meet in every public place on what they agree to call

neutral ground,' say Helen, 'or profess to lay aside all such

distinction, and to banish religion in order to avoid raise

dispute.  you know that no subject can be safely treat of, except

with reference to the christian religion.'



'how do you mean?' say Lucy.



'why,' say Helen, hesitate a little, 'how many people run wild, and

adopt foolish and wicked view of politic, for want of read history

religiously!  and the astronomer and geologist, without faith,

question the possibility of the first chapter of Genesis; and some

people fancy that the world be people with a great tribe of wild

savage, instead of believe all about Adam and Eve and the

Patriarchs.  now if you turn religion out, you see, you be sure to

fall into false notion; and that be what these Mechanics' Institute

people do.'



'yes,' say Lucy, 'I have hear what you say about those thing before,

but I never see they in connection with each other.'



'nor should I have see they in this light, if it have not be for a

conversation between Captain Atherly and another gentleman, one day at

dykeland,' say Helen.  'but, Lucy, do you leave this party, then,

only because I say it be wrong, or because you think so yourself?'



'indeed, I can hardly tell,' answer Lucy; 'I scarcely know what to

think right and what wrong, but I think I might be certain that it

be safe to go home.'



'I do not see,' say Helen, draw herself up, and feeling as if she

have do a very wise thing, and know her reason for do it, too, 'I

do not see that it be so very hard to know what be right from what be

wrong.  it be the easy way to think what Papa and Mamma would

approve, and then try to recollect what reason they would give.'



'but then you be not always sure of what they would say,' reply

Lucy; 'at least I be not, and it be not always possible to ask they.

what do you do all the time you be at dykeland?'



'oh! dear Mrs. Staunton be quite a mother to I,' say Helen; 'and

besides, it be as easy to think what would please papa there as it be

here.  you be from home for some time last year, be you not, Lucy?'



'yes,' reply Lucy, 'I spend several month at Hastings, with

Grandmamma; and I be almost ashamed to say that I feel more comfortable

there than anywhere else.  I like be by the sea, and have a

garden, and be out of the way of the officer.  Papa and Grandmamma

talk of my always live there, and I hope I should; but then I

should not have like to leave Papa and the rest, and not to be at home

in my brother' holiday, so I believe thing be good as they be.'



'how you must wish to have a home!' say Helen.



'do not you think that home be wherever your father and mother and

brother and sister be, Helen?' say Lucy.



'oh yes, certainly,' say Helen, quickly; 'but I mean a settle home.'



'I do sometimes wish we be settle,' say Lucy; 'but I have be use

to wander all my life, and do not mind it as much as you would,

perhaps.  we scarcely stay long enough in one place to get attach to

it; and some place be so disagreeable, that it be a pleasure to leave

they.'



'such as those in Ireland, that Mrs. Hazleby be talk of yesterday?'

say Helen.



'I do not mind those half so much as I do some other,' say Lucy; 'we

could easily get into the country, and I use to walk with Papa every

day, or ride when Harriet do not want the horse.  it be rather

uncomfortable, for we be very much crowded when George and Allan be

at home; but then they have leave to shoot and fish, and enjoy

themselves very much.'



'really, Lucy,' say Helen, 'I cannot think how you can be so very

content.'



'I do not know there be anything to be discontent with,' say Lucy,

smile; 'I be sure I be very happy.'



'but what do you say just now you dislike?' say Helen.



'do I say I dislike anything?' say Lucy.  'oh! I know what it be. I

do not like go to a large town, where we can only walk in the

street, and go out shopping every day, and the boy have nothing to

amuse they.  and it be bad of all to go to a place where Papa and

Mamma have be before, and know all the people; we go out to tea half

the day we be there, or to dinner, or have company at home, and I

never get a quiet evening's reading with Papa, and Allan have a very

great dislike to company.'



as Lucy finish her speech they come to the vicarage; and as they

open the door, Meg Merrilies came purr out to meet Dora.  they

look round for Fido, in order to keep the peace between the two

enemy, but he be nowhere to be see, and Dora remember to have

see he with Harriet, just as they leave the rest of the party at Mr.

Turner's door; so dismiss he from their mind, they go to finish

their walk in the garden, where Helen give Lucy a full description of

all the beauty of dykeland, and the perfection of its inhabitant;

and find she an attentive and obliging listener, talk herself into

a state of most uncommon good humour and amiability for the rest of the

evening.  on her side, Lucy, though she have no particular interest in

the staunton, and indeed have never hear their name before Helen's

visit to they, be really pleased and amuse, for she have learn to

seek her pleasure in the happiness of other people.









CHAPTER VIII.





if Helen have not be too much offend by Elizabeth's disregard of her

counsel to think of anything but her own dignity, and have wait to

remind Katherine of her argument with she, the latter might perhaps

have take the safe course, for it be not without many qualm of

conscience that she ascend the stair to Mrs. Turner's drawing-room.



there be no one in the room; and as soon as the page have close the

door, Elizabeth exclaim, 'I declare, Anne, there be the bone of

contention itself--St. Augustine in his own person!  oh! look at King

Ethelbert's square blue eye; and, Kate, be not this St. Austin's Hill

itself in the distance?'



'Nonsense, Lizzie!' say Katherine, crossly; 'you know it be no such

thing.  it be in the pattern.'



'I assure you it be round, and exactly the colour of St. Austin's,'

say Elizabeth; 'there can be no doubt about it.'



Elizabeth's criticism be here cut short by the entrance of Mrs.

Turner and her daughter, ready dress for the evening's excursion.



'Mrs. Turner,' say Elizabeth, with all the politeness she be capable

of towards that lady, 'we be come to claim your kind offer of take

we to the Mechanics' Institute this evening.'



'oh, my dear Miss Lizzie,' cry Mrs. Turner, 'I be so delighted to

have the honour, you cannot think!  it be my nephew, Augustus Mills,

who lecture to-night.  most talented young man, poor fellow, be

Augustus--never without a book in his hand; quite in your line, Miss

Lizzie.'



at this moment the gentleman quite in Elizabeth's line come into the

room.  he have a quantity of bushy black hair, a long gold chain round

his neck, a plaid velvet waistcoat, in which scarlet be the

predominant colour--and his whole air express full consciousness of

the distinguished part which he be about to act.  Poor Elizabeth!

little reliance as she usually place in Katherine's description, she

have expect to see something a little more gentleman-like than what

she now beheld; and her dismay be increase, when Mrs. Turner

address her nephew--'Augustus, Augustus, my dear, you never be so

flatter in your life?  here _be_ Miss Merton, and Miss Hazleby, and

Miss Lizzie Woodbourne, all come on purpose to hear your lecture!'



Mr. Augustus say something about be very happy, and bow, but

whether to the young lady or to his own reflection in the

look-glass be doubtful.  he be then regularly introduce to Anne

and Elizabeth; and upon Mr. Turner make his appearance, they arrange

themselves for the walk to the Mechanics' Institute.  Mr. Turner, a fat

silent old gentleman, very ceremoniously offer his arm to Miss

Merton, who, though by this time exceedingly amazed and disgust by

all she see and hear, could scarcely refrain from laugh at the air

and grace of her squire, or at the horror she plainly perceive in

Elizabeth's face, when the talk Mrs. Turner exclaim, 'now,

Augustus, I must have you take Miss Woodbourne--I know you will be such

friend!'



Little do Mrs. Turner suspect, as in the overflowing of her pride and

delight she bestow upon Elizabeth the hero of the night, the mingle

feeling of shame and repugnance which the poor girl have to encounter as

she place her hand within the offer arm of Mr. Mills, almost

groan at her own folly, and vainly seek some possible mean of

escape.  Mrs. Turner follow with Harriet; and Katherine and

Wilhelmina bring up the rear.



'you be very fond of study, I believe, Miss Woodbourne?' say Mr.

Mills, as they leave the house.



Elizabeth make some inarticulate answer: she be in the utmost dread of

meeting either of the curate, or bad still, her cousin Rupert

Merton, if he should chance to arrive that evening.



'most interesting pursuit!' continue Mr. Mills, wish to shew his

aunt how well he and his companion agree.  'I be quite devoted to it,

always be!  you be a classical scholar, I presume?'



Elizabeth be ready to wish she have never learn to read: she fancy

she see a figure like Rupert's at the other end of the street, and be

too much frightened to reply.



while they be traverse one street of the old town, cross the

bridge over the little stream which flow along the valley, and

walk along the principal street of the new town, Mr. Mills continue

to talk, and Elizabeth to echo the last word of each sentence; or when

that would not serve for a reply, she have recourse to the simple

interjection 'oh!' that last refuge of listener with nothing to say.

after a walk, which she think be at least as many mile in length as

it be yard, they arrive at the Mechanics' Institute, outside which

they find sundry loiterer, and a strong scent of tobacco; and inside

some crowded bench, a table with some chair range round it, and a

strong odour of gas.



after a good deal of push and shoving, the lady be safely

deposit on one of the front bench; while Mr. Turner, who be one of

the manage committee, seat himself on one of the chair; and Mr.

Augustus Mills stand at the table.



Elizabeth feel as if the crimson flush call up by vexation and

embarrassment, together with her hasty walk, would never leave she

cheek; she hold her head down till Katherine touch she to make she

look up, and trust that her bonnet would screen her heighten

colour from observation, she obey the sign.  a flaring gas-light hung

opposite to she; and as she raise her face she encounter the gaze of

Mr. Higgins, the Radical and dissenting editor of a newspaper which have

several time abuse Mr. Woodbourne.  the moment he catch her eye, he

bow with something of a triumphant air; and she, doubly ashamed of

herself and provoke with he, bent her head so low that he might well

imagine that she return the bow.  she hope by look down to escape

all further observation, but unfortunately for she, Mrs. Turner have

take care to find a conspicuous place for her party; and Katherine,

who have by this time quite forget her doubt and misgiving, be

nod and smile to everyone, with what she consider the utmost

grace and affability.  Anne, meanwhile, be try to account for

Elizabeth's ever have thought of go to such a place, wonder

what Sir Edward and Lady Merton would think of the expedition, and for

a moment consider whether Mr. Woodbourne could approve of it, yet at

the same time keenly enjoy all that be ludicrous in the scene, and

longing to talk it over with Rupert.  she be also much divert with

Mr. Augustus Mills's eloquent lecture, in which she afterwards declare

that she hear the word 'barbarous institution' fifteen time

repeat, and 'civilized and enlighten age,' at least twenty-three

time.  she be, however, not a little fatigued before it be nearly

conclude, and be heartily glad when after an hour and a half it be

terminate by a mighty flourish of rhetoric, upon the universal

toleration, civilization, and liberty enjoy in the nineteenth century.



deafen by the applause of those who have hear little and understand

less, half stifle by the heat of the room, and their head ache from

the smell of gas, the girl now hope to escape; but they be force

to wait till the crowd nearer the door have disperse, and then to

listen to the numerous compliment and congratulation which pour in

upon Mrs. Turner from all quarter before they could reach the open

air; and then, strenuously refuse all invitation to take tea in St.

Martin's Street, they happily regain the vicarage. Helen and Lucy meet

they at the door, with hope that they have have a pleasant evening.



Elizabeth answer quickly, 'come, come, say no more about it, it be a

foolish affair altogether;' but the inquiry, after the feeling she have

see express in Elizabeth's face, strike Anne as so excessively

ridiculous, that the moment they be in the drawing-room she sink down

upon the sofa, give way to the laughter which, long repressed, now

burst forth louder and more merrily upon every fresh remembrance of the

scene; while the other girl, though persist in declare that they

have see nothing divert, be soon infect by her joyous merriment,

and the room ring again with laughter.



'well, Lizzie,' say Anne, recover her breath, 'I hope, as Helen

say, you have have a pleasant evening; I hope you be very much

edify.'



'how can you be so absurd, Anne?' answer Elizabeth, try to look

serious, but the corner of her mouth relax, in spite of her

attempt to control her risible muscle.



'I hope,' continue Anne, with a very grave face, 'that Mr. Augustus

be fully sensible of your wisdom, love of erudition, and classical

scholarship, though I cannot say they appear on the surface.'



'you may be sure he think I very wise,' say Elizabeth; 'I only

echo his own word--and what would a man have more?'



'and how tenderly you touch he with the tip of your glove!'

continue Anne.  'I wish you could have see yourself!'



'indeed, I wish you have, Lizzie,' say Katherine; 'I think you would

have be ashamed of yourself.'



'I be ashamed,' say Elizabeth, gravely and shortly.



Lucy here ask where Fido be.



no one know; no one could recollect anything about he from the time

they have leave Mr. Turner's house to go to the Mechanics' Institute.

Katherine and Harriet go to the front door, they call, they

search, they even go to Mr. Turner's to inquire for he, but all

their research be fruitless; and Harriet turn angrily upon her

sister, say, 'it be all your fault, Lucy, for run home in such a

hurry, and never think of he.  how be I to be watch he there,

do you think?'



'I should have suppose,' say Elizabeth, 'that the person who be

lead the dog be more likely--'



'no, no, Elizabeth,' hastily interrupt Lucy, 'it be my fault in some

degree.  I know I ought to have think of he.'



'well, say no more about he,' say Elizabeth; 'I dare say he will come

home before morning.'



and Elizabeth leave the room to take off her bonnet, and to visit the

nursery, where the child be in bed.  all be asleep excepting

Dora; and as Elizabeth leant over she, kiss she and bid she

good-night, the little girl put her arm round her neck, and say,

'Lizzie, will you tell I one thing?  be it naughty to--to go where

you go to-night?'



Elizabeth have feel annoyed and provoke and surprise at herself for

her folly, but she have not think herself in fault; but now Dora's

soft, sweet, caress tone sound in her ear like a serious reproof,

and turn she thought upon her sin.  she be too upright and sincere

to evade such an inquiry as this, even from a young sister and a

pupil, and answer, 'indeed, Dora, I can hardly tell yet how wrong it

be; but I be afraid it be very wrong, for I be sure it be a thing I

hope you will never do.  besides, I know I be very self-willed, and

unkind to Helen; I have set you a very bad example, Dora, and I believe

I ought to beg your pardon for it. good-night, my dear!'



be Elizabeth lower in her sister's eye by humble herself?



just as the girl be arrange themselves in the drawing-room for the

evening, a loud knocking be hear at the front-door, and Harriet and

Anne both spring up--the one exclaim, 'someone have bring Fido

back!'--the other, 'can that be Rupert?'



the last supposition be prove to be right; and in another moment

Rupert Merton be receive the affectionate greeting of his sister

and cousin.  Elizabeth feel some embarrassment in perform a regular

introduction of Mr. Merton to the Miss Hazlebys; but Rupert's easy

well-breed manner render the formidable ceremony much easy than she

have expect, and the cousin soon fall into their usual style of

conversation.



'well, Mr. Rupert,' say Elizabeth, 'well late than never; that be

all that can be say for you!'



'be I late?' say Rupert; 'I hope no one have wait for I.'



'I hope not indeed,' say Elizabeth; 'pray, do you expect the Bishop

and Clergy, and the whole town of Abbeychurch, St. Mary and St. Austin,

to wait your pleasure and convenience?  Anne, do you ever hear the

like?  do you think Prince Rupert himself be ever so favoured and

honour?



'what do you mean?' say Rupert.



'that you have come a day too late, you idle boy!' say Anne.



'I think next Tuesday be to have be the day of the consecration,'

say Rupert.



'do you never get my letter?' say Anne; 'I write to tell you that the

day be alter, and you be to meet we here on the Wednesday.'



'can I ask you to believe a gentleman's word in opposition to a

lady's?' say Rupert, look round.  'I do indeed receive a letter

from my amiable sister, full of--let I see--history of dog and

cat, and the harvest, and old Dame Philips, and commission for

pencil, which I will produce if I have not lose the key of my

portmanteau, but not one word of the Consecration.'



'but indeed I write a good many word about it,' say Anne; 'have you

the letter, Rupert?'



'have I the letter?' cry Rupert.  'young lady, do you ever hear of

such overweening presumption?  here be a damsel who expect her scrap

of angular writing to be preserve with as much care as the Golden

Bulls of the Pope!'



'that be to say, you burn it without read it,' say Anne.



'the former part of your supposition be true, sweet sister mine,'

reply Rupert: 'not know what spell it might contain, see that

Miss Merton's caligraphy be more like the cabalistic character of a

sorceress than the italian-hand of a gentle demoiselle, I exorcise

it--I commit it to the devouring element!'



'without turn over the second page of the second piece of

note-paper, I suppose?' say Anne.



'how be I ever to suppose that anyone would write a letter for the

purpose of give I an important piece of information,' say Rupert,

'and then put the pith of it in a place where no one would ever dream

of look?  no, Lady Elizabeth, if by my absence your feast have lose

its bright ornament, its witty and wise cavalier, it be this

sister of mine whom you must accuse!'



it be really not a little provoking to be blame in this manner for

Rupert's own carelessness; but Anne be use to her brother's way, and

could bear they with good humour.  Elizabeth, however, attack he.

'why, Rupert, one would suppose you have never hear where a woman's

mind be to be find!  these be most futile excuse.'



'I will only attempt one other,' say the truant--'the utter

worthlessness of young lady' letter, which be such as not to

encourage their friend to make any very strict research into they.'



'bad and bad!' say Elizabeth; 'you have certainly behave most

cavalierly, that must be confess!  we be only consider what

punishment you deserve.'



'I deserve the punishment I have have, Lizzie,' say Rupert; 'I have

miss the Consecration, and three day of this fair company!'



'besides that, you will be hold up ever after as a warning to Horace

and Edward,' say Elizabeth.



'I see that first-mention pupil of yours on Sunday,' say Rupert.



'oh! how pleased Mamma will be!' cry Elizabeth; 'then you go to

Sandleford?'



'yes; find myself too late for the coach on Saturday afternoon, by

which I have intend to go to Ely,' say Rupert, 'I make up my mind to

spend Sunday at Sandleford, and take a cursory view of the young

gentleman, and of my old haunt.'



'thank you,' say Elizabeth, her eye beam with pleasure; 'I be sure

that be very kind of you.  and how do he look, poor little fellow,

and what do he say, and be not he delight to see you?'



'I shall leave you to judge of that,' say Rupert, 'and say that he

look very happy and flourishing, with face and shirt-collar all over

ink on Saturday afternoon; and he say more than I can remember on

Sunday evening.'



'and what do Dr. Freeman say of he?' say Elizabeth.



'Dr. Freeman assure I--what do you think, young ladies?--that Master

Horatio Woodbourne be by far the most promising youth who have enter

his celebrated academy since--of course you know whom I mean, and will

spare my blush!'



'unluckily,' say Anne, 'the evident fabrication of the latter part of

that speech destroy our belief in the beginning of it.'



'no, no,' say Elizabeth, 'it be only the most promising, not the most

perform.  no one can doubt of Rupert's promise!'



'Rupert, you always do talk such nonsense,' say Katherine.



'many thank for the compliment, Lady Kate,' say Rupert, with a bow;

'consider how my intelligence be receive, I think I shall spare it

in future.  I have a letter and parcel from Master Horatio in my

portmanteau, and they may speak for themselves, if I have not lose my

key, as I say before.'



'o Rupert!' cry Anne, 'how could you lose they again, after all the

pain Mamma take to save they?'



'indeed, Anne, I do behave well than usual,' say Rupert; 'I keep

they safe till yesterday, I assure you.  I wish you would come and give

I the carriage key; perhaps some of they may unlock the portmanteau.'



Anne do not think they would; she say they have all be try twice

before; but Rupert would not be satisfied till the experiment have be

repeat once more; and long after all the other girl be go to

bed, he keep his sister up, look out some thing which have be

bring from Merton Hall for he, while he sit by recount all his

adventure in Scotland.  Anne be much delighted to listen, and very

glad to have her brother with she again; but perhaps, if he have not

be quite so much engross by his own affair, he would have see

that she look very tired, and have remember that it be much later

than her usual bed-time.



while Katherine and Helen be undressing, the former begin:



'Helen, I wish you have go, it be such fun!'



'be it?' say Helen.  'I think Lizzie do not seem much gratify.'



'Lizzie?  oh no,' say Katherine; 'she only hang her head and look

vex, though there be such a number of people, all so civil and

bow--Mr. Wilkins, and the Greens, and Mr. Higgins.'



'do Mr. Higgins bow to you and Lizzie?' exclaim Helen.



'yes, that he do,' say Katherine triumphantly; 'and a very polite bow

he make, I assure you, Helen.  I be quite glad to see he; I hope he

be come round.'



'how do Lizzie like it?' ask Helen.



'oh! she be so odd, you know,' say Katherine; 'she seem really quite

angry; I jog she once or twice to make she look up, but she shake I

off quite crossly; I think she would have be please.'



'I should think few thing would vex she much more,' say Helen.



'well,' say Katherine, 'Willie once tell I that some people think

Lizzie very proud and disdainful, and I really begin to believe so too.'



'oh no, Kate,' say Helen; 'I be sure she be not proud, it be only--'



'Mercy, Helen!' here interrupt Kate, 'what be you do to your

hair?'



'curl it,' reply Helen, in her compose manner.



'why in the world?' say Katherine; 'I think you like your plait

well.'



'Lizzie do not,' say Helen.



'well,' say Katherine, 'I be sure I should never dream of do such a

thing, only because Lizzie choose to make a fuss.'



'perhaps not,' say Helen.



there be a silence.  presently Helen say, 'I suppose Mr. Higgins's

next Sunday's paper will mention that the Mechanics' Institute be

honour by the presence of the Miss Woodbournes!'



'dear I, do you think so?' say Katherine, who could not guess from

her sister's manner what opinion she intend to express.



'I think it very probable indeed,' say Helen; 'such a sanction to the

education-without-religion system be not to be neglect.'



'system!' say Katherine, look bewilder; 'how be we to sanction

anything?'



'our station here, as the daughter of the clergyman, give we some

weight,' say Helen; 'besides that, what each person do, however

trifling, be of importance to other.'



this be not very clearly express, and Katherine do not trouble

herself to understand it.  she only say, 'well, I hope we have not get

into a scrape; however, you know it be Lizzie's doing, not mine.'



'I think you go,' say Helen.



'yes,' say Katherine; 'but that be only because Lizzie say it be

not wrong.  she be the eld, and you know she be accountable.'



'I should think that poor consolation,' say Helen.



'well,' say Katherine sleepily, 'good-night.  those horrid gas-light

have make my head ache.  I cannot talk any more.'









CHAPTER IX.





although she have sit up so much later than usual the night before, Anne

be dress on Saturday morning in time to go to her mother's room for

a little while before breakfast.



'Mamma,' say she, after they have speak of Rupert's arrival, 'where do

you think we go yesterday evening?'



'where, my dear?'



'to hear a lecture at the Mechanics' Institute, Mamma.'



'I should not have think that your uncle would have approve of his

daughter go to such a place,' say Lady Merton.



'do you think we ought not to have go, Mamma?' say Anne.



'I do not know the circumstance, my dear,' say Lady Merton; 'the

Mechanics' Institute may perhaps be under your uncle's management, and

in that case--'



'oh no,' say Anne.  'I do not think it be--at least, I do not think

Uncle Woodbourne would have like the lecture we hear much well than

Lizzie and I do; and after it be too late, I find that Helen have

declare it be very wrong of we to go.  she would not go; and I find

that when I be out of the room, she and Lizzie have have a great debate

about it.'



Anne then give a full account of all that have occur, and end with,

'now, Mamma, do you think we could have help go on after we once

come to Mrs. Turner's, and find what kind of a thing it be likely to

be?'



'People certainly cannot stop themselves easily when they have take

the first wrong step,' say Lady Merton.



Anne sigh. 'then I be afraid we have do very wrong,' say she.



'for yourself, Anne,' say her mother, 'I do not think you be much to

blame, since I cannot see how you be to know that your cousin be

go without their father's consent.'



'I be glad you think so, Mamma,' say Anne; 'but I cannot be quite

happy about it, for I might certainly have suppose that there be some

reason against our going, when Helen and the young Miss Hazleby

turn back and go home.'



'you hear none of Helen's remonstrance?' say Lady Merton.



'no, Mamma; I be foolish enough to be satisfied with Lizzie's say

that she have be talk nonsense,' say Anne; 'besides, I could see

that Helen be out of temper, and I think that might account for she

objecting.'



'these be very good reason, Anne,' say Lady Merton.



'indeed they be not, Mamma,' say Anne; 'I be afraid the real cause

be, that my head be so full of the pleasure I expect in go to

the lecture, that I do not choose to think that we ought not to go. I

be afraid I be grow thoughtless, as you say I should here.'



'no, no, Anne,' say Lady Merton, smile, 'I do not say you would, I

only say you must guard against do so; and as far as I have see,

you have shew more self-command than when you and Lizzie be last

together.'



'ah! but when you be not look on, Mamma,' say Anne; 'that be the

dangerous time, especially now Rupert be come; he and Lizzie will make

we laugh dreadfully.'



'I hope they will,' say Lady Merton, 'provide it be without flippancy

or unkindness.'



'but, Mamma,' say Anne, presently after, 'what do you think about

Lizzie? be she in the wrong?'



'I cannot tell without know more about it,' say Lady Merton; 'do

you know what she think herself?'



'no, Mamma,' say Anne; 'she be asleep before I go to bed last

night, and up before I awake this morning.  but I do firmly believe,

that if Lizzie have have the slight idea that she be do wrong in

go there, she would as soon have think of fly as of do so.'



it be now breakfast-time; and Rupert come up to summon his mother and

sister, and to inform they that his portmanteau have just be break

open for the seventh time since it have be in his possession. he say

this with some satisfaction, for he be somewhat vain of his

carelessness, for of what cannot people be vain?



during breakfast, it be arrange that the three elder lady should go

in the Mertons' carriage to Baysmouth, a large town, which be about

ten mile distant from Abbeychurch, and take Winifred and Edward with

they; Dora be to accompany the other young people in a long walk, to a

farm-house, which report say have be a baronial castle in the day of

King Stephen, and from explore the antiquity of which some of they

expect great thing, especially as it be know by the mysterious

name of Whistlefar.  Mr. Woodbourne and Sir Edward expect to be

engage all day in the final settlement of account with the architect

of the church.



as soon as the two party of pleasure have be arrange, Elizabeth

leave the breakfast-table to tell the child of the treat in store for

they, and to write a little note to Horace, to accompany Dora's letter,

which have be finish that morning before breakfast.



just after she have quit the room, Sir Edward ask what the

smart-look building, at the corner of Aurelia Place, be.



'you mean the Mechanics' Institute,' say Mr. Woodbourne.



'never be new town without one,' say Rupert.



'be this one well conduct?' inquire Lady Merton.



'not much bad than such thing usually be,' reply Mr. Woodbourne;

'two or three socialist lecture be give there, but they be

stop before they have time to do much harm.'



'be you oblige to interfere?' say Sir Edward.



'yes,' say Mr. Woodbourne; 'I go to some of the managing

committee--Mr. Green and old Mr. Turner--and after some rather strong

representation on my part, they find mean to put a stop to they.

Higgins, their chief promoter, make several violent attack upon I in

his newspaper for my illiberality and bigotry; and poor Mr. Turner be

so much distressed, that he come to entreat I to go myself, or at

least to allow my girl to go, to some lecture, which he promise

should be perfectly harmless.  I tell he that I disapprove of

Mechanics' Institutes in general, and especially of the way in which

this one be conduct, and that I have resolve long before that none of

my family should ever set foot in it.  here the matter end; and I

have hear no more of it, except that Mrs. Turner be constantly

torment my wife with offer to take the girl to some peculiarly

interesting lecture.'



if Elizabeth have be present, she would certainly have immediately

confess her indiscretion of the evening before; but she be not

there, and Katherine, who be on the point of speak, be check by

an implore glance from Harriet.  the conversation be change, and

nothing more be say on the subject.  as soon as they could leave the

breakfast-table, all the young lady instantly fly to the

school-room, where Elizabeth be sit alone, write.



'Lizzie, Lizzie!' exclaim three voice at once, 'do you know what you

have do?'



'be it anything very fatal?' say Elizabeth, look quite compose.



'a fine scrape you have get into!' cry Katherine.



'a pretty kettle of fish you have bring we into!' exclaim Harriet.



'but what be the matter, good lady?' say Elizabeth; 'why do you look

so like the form that draw Priam's curtain at the dead of night?'



'come, Lizzie,' say Katherine pettishly, 'do not be so provoking with

Priam and all that stuff, but tell we what be to be do about that

horrid Institute.'



'oh! that be it, be it?' say Elizabeth; 'so I suppose Fido be steal

there, and you be afraid to tell!'



'I be afraid he be,' say Katherine; 'but that be not the bad of

it--I know nothing about he.  but do you know what Papa say?  Uncle

Edward have be ask about the Institute; and, oh dear! oh dear! Papa

say he could not bear Mechanics' Institutes, and have resolve quite

firmly that none of his family should ever set foot in one!'



Elizabeth really look quite appalled at this piece of intelligence;

and Katherine continue, 'and Chartists, and socialist, and horrible

people, have be lecture there!  I remember now, that when you be

at Merton Hall in the spring, there be a great uproar, and the

Abbeychurch reporter behave very badly to Papa about it.  a fine

affair you have make of it, indeed, Lizzie!'



'and pray, Miss Kate,' say Elizabeth sharply, 'who be the person who

first propose this fine expedition?  really, I think, if everyone have

their desert, you would have no small share of blame! what could

prevent you from tell I all this yesterday, when it seem you know

it all the time?'



'I forget it,' say Katherine.



'exactly like you,' continue her sister; 'and how could you listen to

all Helen say, and not be put in mind of it?  and how could you bring

I back such a flaming description of Mrs. Turner's august puppy of a

nephew?  if we be in a kettle of fish, as Harriet say, you be at the

bottom of it!'



'well, Lizzie,' say Katherine, 'do not be so cross; you know Mamma

say I have such a bad memory, I cannot help forget.'



and she begin to cry, which soften Elizabeth's anger a little.



'I do not mean to throw _all_ the blame upon you, Kate,' say she; 'I

know I ought not to have trust to you; besides that, I lead you all

into it, be the eld.  I only mean to shew you that you be not

quite so immaculate as you seem to imagine.  we have all do very

wrong, and must take the consequence.'



Helen be leave the room, when Harriet die out, 'o Helen, pray do

not go and tell of we!'



'Helen have no such intention,' say Elizabeth; 'I be go to tell Papa

myself as soon as he have do breakfast.'



'oh! Lizzie, dear Lizzie,' cry Harriet, 'I beg you will not; you

do not know what Mamma would do to I!'



'pray, Harriet,' say Elizabeth scornfully, 'do you think that I be

go to conceal my own fault from my own father?'



'but, Lizzie, stop one moment,' say Harriet; 'you know it be you and

Kate who take I; I do not know it be wrong to go; and now Fido be

lose, Mamma will be certain to say it be by my going, and she will be

dreadfully angry with I; and you would not wish I to be scold for

what be your fault!'



'should not you wish I to tell, Anne,' say Elizabeth, turn she

back upon Harriet.



'I tell Mamma this morning,' say Anne.



'tell she!' exclaim Harriet; 'and what do she say--?'



'she say she wonder that my cousin be allow to go to such a

place,' say Anne; 'and she seem very sorry we have go.'



'but be she angry with you?' persist Harriet.



Anne hesitate; and Elizabeth reply, 'no, of course she could not be

angry with Anne, when it be all my doing.  she must be displease

enough with I, though.'



'but will she tell Mamma and Aunt Mildred?' say Harriet.



'I do not think she will,' answer Anne.



'no, because she trust to I to tell,' say Elizabeth; 'so that you

see I must, Harriet.'



'must you?' say Harriet; 'I cannot see why; it will only get we all a

scolding.'



'which we richly deserve,' say Elizabeth.



'I be sure, if you like to be scold,' say Harriet, 'you be very

welcome; only do not make Mamma scold I too.'



'I be sure, if you like to be insincere and cowardly,' say Elizabeth,

'you shall not make I so too.'



'I do not want you to tell a fib,' say Harriet; 'I only want you to

say nothing.'



'L'un vaut bien l'autre,' say Elizabeth.



'what?' say Harriet; 'do only wait till we be go, if you be

determined to tell--there's a dear girl.'



'Deceive Papa and Mamma for three whole day!' cry Elizabeth; 'I

wonder you be not ashamed of yourself.  besides, Harriet, I do not see

what you have to fear.  it be Kate and I who do wrong; we know

well, and cast away Helen's good advice; we shut our eye and go

headlong into mischief, but you have no reason to suppose that you might

not do as we do.'



'no,' say Harriet, 'I should not care if it be not for Fido.'



'but will my silence find Fido?' say Elizabeth.



'no,' say Harriet; 'but if Mamma know we go there she will scold we

for go, because she will be angry about Fido; and if she once think

that it be I who lose he--oh, Lizzie, you do not know how angry she

will be!'



'but, Harriet,' say Katherine, 'I think you use to say that you

could do anything with your Mamma, and that she never mind where you

go.'



'oh! that be when she be in good humour,' say Harriet; 'she be not

often cross with I, but when she be, you may hear she from one end of

the house to the other.  cannot you, Lucy?  and now she will be

dreadfully cross about Fido, and the other thing come upon it, I do

not know what she may say.  o Lizzie, you will save I!'



'I will only tell of Kate and myself,' say Elizabeth; 'or I will ask

Papa not to mention it to Mrs. Hazleby; though, Harriet, there be some

people who prefer any suffering, just or unjust, to deceit.'



'then you mean to tell directly,' say Katherine, in a piteous tone.



'of course I do,' say Elizabeth; 'there be the dining-room door shut.

come with I, Kate.'



Katherine rather unwillingly follow her sister into the passage; but

when there, fear make her ingenious, a sudden thought strike she.

'Lizzie,' whisper she, 'if you tell Papa that you and I go, Mrs.

Hazleby will be sure to hear, and if she ask Harriet about it, perhaps

she--you know--may tell a story about it.'



'fine confidence you shew in your choose friend!' say Elizabeth.



'why, one must be civil; and Harriet be a sort of cousin,' say

Katherine; 'but I be sure she be not half so much my friend as Willie.'



'well, never mind defend your taste in friend,' say Elizabeth;

'for as I do think your scruple worth answer, I will tell you that I

have think of the same thing; but I do not choose to do evil that good

may come, or that evil may not come.  I shall tell Papa what an

excellent opinion you have of Harriet, and leave he to do as he

please.'



Elizabeth's hand be on the lock of the door of her father's study,

when Katherine exclaim, 'there be someone there--I hear voice!'



'Uncle Edward,' say Elizabeth.  'I do not mind his be there; we

ought to beg his pardon for lead Anne astray.'



'oh! but do not you see,' say Katherine, 'here be a hat and a roll of

paper on the table!  Mr. Roberts must be come.'



'tiresome man!' cry Elizabeth; 'he will be there all day, and I shall

not see Papa I do not know when.  it really be a very convenient thing

when the architect of the old german cathedral use to take a

desperate leap from the top of the tower as soon as it be finish.

well, I must find Mamma now.'



'cannot you wait till the evening, when you may see Papa?' say

Katherine, hope to put off the evil day.



'I cannot have this upon my mind all day unconfessed,' say Elizabeth;

'besides, Harriet will pester I with entreaty as long as it be

untold.  Come, Kitty, do not be such a coward.'



'I be sure I do not want you not to tell,' say Katherine, look

rather miserable; 'only I be not in such a hurry about it as you be.

you do not know where Mamma be.'



'no, but I will find she,' say Elizabeth.



the sister set off on the chase; they look into the drawing-room,

the dining-room, Mrs. Woodbourne's room, without success; they run up

to the nursery, but she be not there; and they be go down again,

when Katherine, see Elizabeth go towards the kitchen stair,

exclaim, 'well, I will go no far; it be so ridiculous, as if it

be a matter of life and death!  you may call if you want I.'



Katherine retreat into her own room, and Elizabeth run down to the

kitchen, where she find Mrs. Woodbourne ordering dinner.



Elizabeth stand by the fire, bite her lip and pinch her finger,

and tremble all over with impatience, while Mrs. Woodbourne and the

cook be busily consult over some grouse which Rupert have bring

from Scotland.



'Lizzie, my dear,' say Mrs. Woodbourne presently, 'would you just run

to my room and fetch down the green receipt-book?'



Elizabeth obey: running be rather a relief to she, and she be

down-stair again in another instant.



'why, Lizzie,' say Mrs. Woodbourne, with a smile, 'you must be wild

to-day; you have bring I the account-book instead of--but, my dear

child, what be the matter?' say she, perceive that Elizabeth's face

be scarlet, and her eye full of tear.



'I will tell you presently,' whisper Elizabeth, breathlessly, 'when

you have do.'  she dart away again, and return with the right

book; but Mrs. Woodbourne be too much alarmed by her manner to spend

another moment in give direction to the cook, and instantly follow

she to her own room.  Elizabeth hastily shut the door, and sit down to

recover her breath.



'my dear Lizzie, there be nothing amiss with any of the--' exclaim

Mrs. Woodbourne, almost gasp for breath.



'oh no, Mamma,' say Elizabeth, a smile pass over her face in spite

of her distress, 'it be not winifred who be mad.  it be I who have be

more mad and foolish and self-willed than you would ever believe.

Mamma, I have be with Mrs. Turner to the Mechanics' Institute.'



'my dear Lizzie, you do not mean it!' say Mrs. Woodbourne.



'yes, Mamma, indeed it be so,' say Elizabeth mournfully; 'I do not

know what have happen there certainly, but I would not listen to

Helen's good advice, and so I have make Papa seem to consent to what he

abhor; I have lead Kate and Anne and Harriet all wrong.  oh! Mamma, be

not it terrible?'



'indeed, I wish I have tell you what your Papa say to Mr. Turner,' say

Mrs. Woodbourne; 'I be afraid your papa will be very much annoyed; but,

my dear, do not distress yourself, you could not know that it be

wrong.'



'yes; but, Mamma,' say Elizabeth, 'I do know that it be wrong to go

out without ask your leave.  simple obedience might have keep I

straight.  but now I will tell you all, and you shall judge what have

good be do about the Hazlebys and Fido.'



rather incoherently, and with many sob, Elizabeth tell the history of

the precede evening.  Mrs. Woodbourne listen to she with the utmost

kindness, and say all she could to soothe and console she, assure

she that Mr. Woodbourne could not be seriously displeased with she for

having transgress a command of which she be ignorant. Elizabeth be

much relieved by having be able to talk over her conduct in this

manner; and though she still feel that she have be very much to blame,

and by no mean sure that Mr. Woodbourne would pass over her fault so

lightly, be greatly comfort by her mamma's kindness.  she go away

to bathe her swollen eye, before she go down to the school-room to

read the Psalms and Lessons with her sister, as be their regular

custom when there be no service at the church, before they begin their

morning's work; Mrs. Woodbourne undertaking to call the child down

in a few minute, and say that she would speak to Katherine in the

course of the day.  she willingly promise to say nothing to Mrs.

Hazleby, and only wish she be quite sure that there be no symptom

of madness about Fido.



'what a strange girl Lizzie be!' cry Harriet, just as Elizabeth

depart on her search for her father or Mrs. Woodbourne.



'but, Harriet,' say Lucy, draw she aside to the window, 'what

difference be she say nothing to make?  Mamma will ask how Fido be

lose.'



'I be sure, Lucy, that be more your fault than mine,' say Harriet; 'I

could not be watch he all the time we be at that place.'



'then why do you take he there?' say Helen.



'because Lucy choose to run away without ever think what I be to

do,' say Harriet.



'but when you be lead he, and it must have be you who let go

his string,' say Helen; 'I cannot see how you can accuse Lucy of

having be the mean of lose he, when she be safe at home.'



Harriet be save from the necessity of find an answer, by hear

her mother call she in the passage, and she hasten to obey the

summon.



'do you know where Fido be?' be Mrs. Hazleby's question.



'no,' say Harriet, find she have only escape one dilemma to fall

into another.  she avoid any further question, however, by hasten

past her mother and run up-stair.



'Lucy, Lucy!' then call Mrs. Hazleby; and as Lucy come out of the

school-room, she repeat the inquiry.



'I do not know, Mamma,' answer Lucy in a low voice, but stand

quite still.



'go and ask for he in the kitchen then,' say Mrs. Hazleby.



'I be afraid it would be of no use. Ma'am,' say Lucy, firmly, but not

dare to raise her eye; 'we miss he when we come in from walk,

yesterday evening.'



'yesterday evening!' cry Mrs. Hazleby; 'and do you never speak of

it?  I never know anyone so careless as you be, in all my life.  it be

of no use to leave anything in your charge, you care for--'



here Lucy leant back and shut the door behind she, so that Anne and

Helen could distinguish nothing but the sound of Mrs. Hazleby's loud

angry voice raise to its high pitch.



'Poor Lucy!' sigh Helen.



'dreadful!' say Anne.



'and how can anyone say that Lucy be not one of the noble, most

self-devote creature upon earth?' exclaim Helen, with tear in her

eye; 'there she be, bear all that terrible scolding, rather than

say it be Harriet's fault, as everyone know it be.  I be sure no one

be like Lucy.  and this be go on continually about something or

other.'



'how can she exist?' say Anne.



'with her acute feeling and painful timidity,' say Helen, 'it be

bad for she than it would be for anyone else, yet how gently and

simply she bear it all! and old Mrs. Hazleby say that she be often

ill after these scolding, and she would have take she away to live

with she, as the Major propose, after Miss Dorothea Hazleby die, but

that she think it would be take away all the comfort of her

father's life.  oh! Anne,' cry Helen, walk up and down the room as

Mrs. Hazleby's voice become loud and louder, 'I cannot bear it; what

shall I do?  oh! if it be but right, if it would not make it bad for

Lucy, I could, I would go out and tell Mrs. Hazleby what everybody

think of she.'



'I do not wonder that Miss Hazleby be ready to do almost anything to

avoid such a scene,' say Anne.



'mean selfish creature!' say Helen; 'she run away on purpose that Lucy

might stay and bear all this.  Anne, I do believe that if martyr be

make, and crown be gain, by daily suffering and hourly

self-denial, that such a crown will be dear dear Lucy's.'



Anne's answer was--



          'and all the happy soul that ride

           Transfigured through that fresh abode,

           have heretofore in humble trust,

           Shone meekly 'mid their native dust,

           the glow-worm of the earth!'





'thank you, Anne,' say Helen, wipe away her tear; 'I will think of

Lucy as the light, the glow-worm of her family.  thank you; the thought

of her meek clear light in darkness need not be gloomy, as it have be.'



Anne have never think of Helen as possess so much enthusiasm, and

be almost more inclined to wonder at she than at Lucy.  while they have

be talk, Mrs. Hazleby's voice have cease, step be now hear in

the passage, and a letter be bring in and give to Helen. it be

from Fanny Staunton, but she have only just time to glance it over,

before the three child come in, follow by their mother and

Elizabeth.  Anne go to call her mother to join they in read the

Psalms and Lessons; and Winifred be send to summon Katherine, who have

purposely linger up-stair till all the rest be assemble.



Elizabeth's eye be very red, and she be afraid to trust her voice

to read the first verse of the Psalm, as it be always her part to do;

but little Dora, who sit next to she, and who seem in part to enter

into her feeling, although she say nothing, read the first verse for

she; and Elizabeth take Edward, who always look over her book, upon

her knee when the Lessons begin, so as to screen her face from her

aunt.  when they have finish, attention be draw away from she by

Edward, who be eagerly assure Lady Merton that the Bible and

Prayer-book which Uncle Edward, his godfather, have give he, be

quite safe, and he be to use they himself when Lizzie think he could

read well enough.  this Dora explain as meaning when he have for a

week abstain from guess word instead of spell they; and

Elizabeth propose to he to try whether he could read to-day without

one mistake.  Edward object to read at that time, as he be to go

out at half-past twelve, and there would be no time for lesson.

Elizabeth demonstrate that it be now only half-past ten, and that it

be impossible that he could spend two hour in put on his good

frock and trowser, and in settle what to buy with the bright

half-crown which Uncle Edward have give he; and Winifred assure he

that she mean to do all her lesson to-day.  Edward look round to

appeal to his mother, but both she and Lady Merton have leave the room,

and he be force to content himself with ask Anne whether she

think there be time.



'oh yes, Edward; I hope you will let I hear how well you can read; I

want to know whether the young robin see any more monster,' say Anne

good-naturedly.



winifre, rather inopportunely, be ready with the information, that

the nest be visit by two more monster; but Anne stop her ear,

and declare she would hear nothing but from Edward himself, and the

young gentleman be thus persuade to begin his lesson.



Helen do not wait to see how the question be decide, but go up to

her own room to enjoy Fanny Staunton's letter.  she pause however a

few moment, to consider whether she should go to Lucy, but think

that it must certainly be painful to she to speak of what have pass,

she proceed to her own room, there to send her whole heart and mind

to dykeland.



Fanny Staunton's letter be overflow with affection and with regret

for Helen's departure; and this, together with her description of her

own and her sister's amusement and occupation, make Helen's heart

yearn more strongly than ever after the friend she have leave.  Anne's

cheerful manner, and Lucy's quiet content, have, the day before, make

Helen rather ashamed of herself, and she have resolve to leave off

pine for dykeland, and to make herself happy, by be useful and

obliging, without think about little grievance, such as almost

everyone could probably find in their own home, if they search for

they.  when she have curl her hair, it be with the hope that the

sacrifice of her tail would convince Elizabeth that she have some

regard for her taste; unfortunately, however, her hair be rather too

soft to curl well, and after having be plait for the last three

month, it be most obstinate in hang deplorably straight, in a way

very uncomfortable to her feeling and irritate to her temper;

besides which, Elizabeth have be too much occupy by her own concern

all the morning, to observe the alteration, and indeed, if she have

remark it, she be not likely to feel as much flatter by this

instance of deference to her opinion, as Helen think she ought to be.

last night, Helen have lament that her own petulance have prevent she

from reason calmly with Elizabeth, and from set before her all

the argument upon which she have discourse so fluently to Lucy, after

the imprudent step have be take; but now, she throw the blame upon

Elizabeth's impetuosity and unkindness, and feel somewhat aggrieved,

because neither of her sister have express a full sense of her

firmness and discretion.  she compare Fanny's affectionate

expression, with Elizabeth's sharp and hasty manner; the admiration

which her friend have make rather too evident, with the wholesome

though severe criticism she sometimes meet with at home; the quietness

at dykeland, with the constant bustle at the vicarage; and end, by

think Mrs. Woodbourne the only person of the family who possess

any gentleness or kindness, and make up her mind that dykeland be

the only pleasant place in England, and that she herself be a most

ill-use person, whose merit be not in the least appreciate.



such be the feeling which gradually take possession of her mind,

while she be write her answer to Fanny's letter; and by the time she

have finish, have bring she into that agreeable frame, which be

disposed to be offend with the first person who do not act up to

its expectation.



Katherine's study, through the whole morning, be to avoid a private

interview with Mrs. Woodbourne; and she really shew considerable

ingenuity in evade she.  if Mrs. Woodbourne call she, she answer,

'yes, Mamma, I be come directly,' but she take care not to come till

she know that her mamma be no long alone; if Lady Merton want

anything which she have leave up-stair, Katherine would officiously

volunteer to fetch it, when particularly tell that she be not want;

if Mrs. Woodbourne move to the door, and make sign to Katherine to

follow she, she work with double assiduity, and never look up

unless to speak to Rupert or to Harriet; and thus she contrive to

elude the reproof she expect, until the whole party, except the two

gentleman, meet at twelve o'clock for an early luncheon, so that there

be no long any danger that Mrs. Woodbourne would find an opportunity

of speak to she, at present.



the three child be to dine late with the rest of the party, and

be in high glee at the prospect of the afternoon's amusement;

Elizabeth seem to have recover her spirit; Harriet be as noisy as

ever; and Lucy, if possible, a little quieter than be she willnot; Anne,

as usual, ready to be amuse with anything; and Rupert quite prepare

to amuse everyone.



Fido be again mention, and Rupert, who have hear about half of the

history of his loss, suggest the possibility of his having be

despatch by the railroad to London, there to be convert into

sausage.  Harriet, after many exclamation of 'o Mr. Merton!' declare

that if she believe such a thing could ever happen, she would never

eat another sausage in her life, and conclude as usual with, 'would

you, Lucy?'  Mrs. Woodbourne inquire anxiously after Winifred's hand.

Mrs. Hazleby be on the point of take fire at the imply suspicion

of her lament favourite's sanity, when Rupert avert the threaten

danger, by a grave examination of Winifred and Meg Merrilies, who have

both be wound, and conclude by recommend that as soon as puss

shewed symptom of hydrophobia, Winifred should be smother between

two feather-bed, to prevent further mischief.  everyone laugh,

except Dora, who think the proposal exceedingly shocking; and Rupert

argue very gravely with she on the expediency of the measure, until

she be call away to prepare for the walk.









CHAPTER X.





Dora re-consider her argument while put on her bonnet, and the

instant the walk party be outside the front door, she begin again.

'but, Rupert, it would be commit murder to kill Winifred, even if

she have the Fidophobia.'



'no, no, Dora,' say Rupert, 'it be your mamma and Lizzie who have the

Fidophobia.'



'what can you mean?' say Helen; 'how can you frighten the child so,

Rupert?'



'do not you know, Helen,' say Elizabeth, ''tis his vocation.  he be a

true Knight Rupert.'



'expound, most learn cousin,' say Rupert; 'you be too deep.'



'you must know,' say Elizabeth, 'that Knecht Ruprecht be the german

terrifier of naughty child, the same as the chimney-sweeper in

England, or Coeur de Lion in Palestine, or the Duke of Wellington in

France.



          'Baby, baby, he's a giant,

             tall and black as Rouen steeple;

           and he dine and sup, 'tis say,

             every day, on naughty people.'





'I should have think,' say Rupert, 'that consider my namesake's

babe-bolt propensity, and his great black dog, that he would have

be more likely to be hold up in terrorem in England.'



'I suppose there be some old grim Sir Rupert in Germany,' say

Elizabeth; 'but my dictionary be my only authority.'



'you be take knecht to mean a knight,' say Anne, 'contrary to your

argument last night.  Knecht Ruprecht's origin be not nearly so sublime

as you would make it out.  Keightley's Fairy Mythology say he be only

our old friend Robin good-fellow, Milton's lubber fiend, the Hob

Goblin.  you know, Rupert, and Robert, and Hob, be all the same name,

Rudbryht, bright in speech.'



'and a hobbish fellow mean a gentleman as clumsy as the lubber fiend,'

say Elizabeth.



'no doubt he wear hob-nail in his shoe,' say Rupert.



'and chimney hob be so call, because his cream bowl be duly set

upon they,' say Anne.



'and he be as familiar as the Robin Redbreast,' say Elizabeth.



'and wear a red waistcoat like he, and like Herb Robert,' say Anne.



'as shabby as this flower,' say Elizabeth, gather a ragged Robin

from the hedge.



'well do, etymology,' say Rupert; 'now for syntax and prosody.'



'I hope we have be talk syntax all this time,' say Elizabeth; 'we

will keep prosody for the evening, and then play at Conglomeration.'



they now come to some bright green water-meadow, which border the

little stream as soon as it leave the town.  there be a broad dry path

by the river side, and as they walk along it, there be no lack of

laughter or merriment in anyone but Helen, and she could find no

amusement in anything she see or hear.  at last, however, she be

highly delighted at the sight of some plant of purple loose-strife,

grow on the bank.  'oh!' cry she, 'that be the flower that be so

beautiful at dykeland.'



'what! the loose strife?' say Elizabeth, 'it be common enough in all

damp place.'



Poor Helen! as if this slight to the flower she admire be not a

sufficient shock to her feeling, Rupert, perfectly unconscious on what

tender ground he be treading, say, 'if it be a lover of damp, I be

sure it can nowhere be well suit than at dykeland.  do you grow

web-footed there, Helen?'



'o rupert,' say Helen, 'I be sure the garden be always quite dry.'



'except when it be wet,' say Elizabeth.



'that be certainly the case when I be there two year ago,' observe

Rupert; 'I could not stir two step from the door without meet with

a pool deep enough to swim a man-of-war.'



'Rupert,' say Elizabeth, 'I hereby give notice, that whosoever say

one single word against the perfect dryness, cleanliness, and beauty,

of dear dykeland, commit high treason against Miss Helen Woodbourne;

and as protect disconsolate damsel be the bounden duty of a true

knight and cavalier, I advise you never to mention the subject, on pain

of be consider a discourteous recreant.'



'Lizzie, how can you?' say Helen peevishly.



'how strange it be,' say Anne, 'that so many old family house should

have be build in damp place.'



'our ancestor be once apparently frog,' say Rupert; unhappily

remind Helen of her sister's parody.



'well,' say Elizabeth, 'I can understand why monastery should have

be build in damp place, near river or bog, both for the sake of

the fish, and to be useful in drain; but why any other mortal except

Dutchmen, tadpole, and newts, should delight in mud and mire, pass

my poor comprehension.'



Rupert point to a frog which Dora's foot have startle from its

hiding-place, and say, 'pray, why, accord to my theory, should not

the human kind have once be frog? leap-frog be only a return to

our natural mean of progression.'



'and bull-frog in a course of become stalwart gentleman,' say Anne.



'yes, we often hear of a croak disposition, do not we, Helen?' say

Elizabeth; 'you see both that propensity, and a love of marsh, be

but indication of a former state of existence.'



'and I be sure that your respectable neighbour, Mr. Turner, be a toad

on his hind leg,' say Rupert.



'minus the precious jewel,' say Elizabeth.



'by-the-bye,' say Rupert, 'be there not some mystery about that

gentleman?  this morning I hazard a supposition, in the drawing-room,

that the lose darling we have hear so much of, might have be

dissect for the benefit of Mr. Turner's pupil, and thereupon arise a

most wonderful whispering between Kate and one of your sweet cousin

there, Lizzie, about some nephew, an Adolphus or Augustus, or some such

name; but the more question I ask, the more dark and mysterious do

the young lady become.'



'I wonder if it be possible!' cry Elizabeth, with a sudden start.



'what be possible?' ask Anne.



'that Rupert should be right,' say Elizabeth; 'be Mrs. Hazleby in the

room when you speak?'



'yes, but what of that?' say Rupert.



'that you, talk at random,' say Elizabeth, 'very nearly betray

Harriet's grand secret.'



'really, the affair become quite exciting,' say Rupert; 'pray do not

leave I in suspense, explain yourself.'



'I do not think I can, Rupert,' say Elizabeth, not wish to expose

Harriet, for Mrs. Woodbourne's sake.



'then I be to understand,' say Rupert, 'that Miss Hazleby have

present Fido to this noble Adolphus, as a pledge of the tender

friendship, and that you and Kate act as confidant.'



'Nonsense, Rupert,' say Anne, try to check he by a look.



'and I suppose,' proceed Rupert, 'that the gentleman be to extract

poor Fido's faithful heart, and wear it next his own.  I never should

have devise so refined and sentimental a souvenir.  it be far beyond

forget-I-not and arrow.  so professional too.'



Elizabeth and Anne laugh so much that they could neither of they

speak for some moment; but when Anne recover, she take her brother

by the arm and whisper, 'Rupert, the less you say about the Turners

or Fido, the well.  I will explain it all to you when we have an

opportunity.'



Elizabeth thank she by a look; and at this moment Dora, who have be

far in advance with Katherine and the Hazlebys, come run back to

beg Rupert to gather for she some fine bulrush which grow on the

brink of the river.  Rupert be very willing to comply with her

request; but Elizabeth recommend Dora to leave they till they should

return, and not to take the trouble of carry they to Whistlefar

Castle and back again.



leave the river, they begin to ascend a steep chalky lane, which have

be wet all the winter, and be now full of rough harden wheel-rut

and hole make by slip horse.  Elizabeth think that Robert

Bruce's calthorp could hardly have make the ground more uneven, and

she be just go to say so, when Helen groan out, 'what a horrid

place!  I slip and bruise my ancle every minute.' upon which she

immediately take the other side of the question, and answer, 'it be

not nearly so bad as the long lane on the down, and you never complain

of that.'



'oh! but this be all up-hill,' say Helen.



'I be not in the least tired, Helen,' say Dora, who with Rupert's

assistance be take fly leap over the rut.



'you? no, I should think not,' say Helen, in so piteous a tone, that

rupert very good-naturedly wait till she come up to he, and then

offer she his arm.



on see this, Harriet be rather vex that she have not be first

notice by the gentleman, and begin to make heavy complaint of the

badness of the road, but no one pay much attention to she. Elizabeth

however give her arm to Lucy, who never could bear much fatigue.



after they have gain the top of the hill, they walk on for some

distance between high hedge, and as none of the party know the way

far than the river, except from some direction give they by Mr.

Walker, the Curate, they begin to think that they must have miss a

turn to the left, which he have tell they to take.  Harriet and Helen

both declare that they have pass the turning; Katherine be sure they

have not; and Elizabeth say that she have see a turn to the right some

way behind they, but that to the left be yet to come. as they could

not agree upon this question, Rupert walk onwards to explore, leave

the young lady to rest on the trunk of a tree lie by the side of

the road.  while he be go, Elizabeth draw Helen aside, say,

'Helen, you have well take care, I hope Rupert have not observe how

much out of humour you be.'



'I be not out of humour,' say Helen, accord to the usual fashion of

deny such a charge.



'then why do you look and speak as if you be?' say her sister; 'you

have well watch yourself.'



'I think you be enough to vex anyone, Lizzie,' say Helen; 'bring

I ever so far out of the way on such a road as this, and then scold

I for say I do not like it.'



'I see,' answer Elizabeth, 'you be not in a fit state to be reason

with.'



'no,' retort Helen, who have indulge in her ill-humour till she

hardly know what she say, 'you will never condescend to hear what I

have to say.  perhaps it might be as well sometimes if you would.'



'yes, Helen,' say Elizabeth, colour and turn away, 'it would

indeed.  I know I have give you a right to upbraid I.'



at this moment Rupert come back, cheer the droop courage of the

wearied and heated damsel with intelligence, that 'there be no lane

without a turning,' and he have find the one they be seek.



thing now go on well; they come to a shady green path by the side

of a wood, and Helen be more silent, her temper having perhaps be a

little improve by the coolness.  soon, however, they have to cross two

long field, where gleaning be go on merrily; Helen make several

complaint of the heat and of the small size of her parasol; and

Elizabeth have to catch Dora, and hold she fast, to prevent she from

overheat herself by a race after Rupert through the stubble.  at the

first stile, Harriet think proper to make a great outcry, and be

evidently quite disposed for a romp, but Rupert help she over so

quietly that she have no opportunity for one.  they now find themselves

in a grass field, the length of which make Helen sigh.



'why, Helen, how soon you be tired!' say Rupert; 'I be afraid

dykeland do not agree with you.'



'Helen be only a little cross, she will be well presently,' say

Dora, in so comical a tone, that Rupert, Katherine, and Harriet all

laugh, and Helen say sharply, 'Dora, do not be pert.'



Rupert be really a very good-natured youth, but it would have require

more forbearance than he possess, to abstain from teaze so tempting

a subject as poor Helen be at this moment.



'and how do you know that Helen be a little cross, Dora, my dear?' say

he.



'because she look so,' say Dora.



'and how do people look when they be a little cross, Dora?'



'I do not know,' answer Dora.



'do they look so, my dear?' say Rupert, mimic poor Helen's

woe-begone face in a very droll way.



Dora laugh, and Helen be still more displeased.  'Dora, it be very

naughty,' say she.



'what! to look cross?' say Rupert; 'certainly, be it not, Dora?'



Elizabeth and Anne be far in the rear, reach for some botanical

curiosity, on the other side of a wet ditch, or they would certainly

have put a stop to this conversation, which be not very profitable to

any of the party concern.  Dora be rather a matter-of-fact little

person, and a very good implement for teaze with, as she do not at

all suspect the use make of she, until a sudden thought strike she,

she stop short, say very decidedly, 'we will not talk of this any

more.'



'why not?' say Rupert, rather sorry to be check in the full

enjoyment of his own wit.



'because Helen do not like it,' say Dora.



'but, Dora,' say Rupert, wish to try the little girl rather

far, 'do not you think she deserve it, for be out of temper?'



'I do not know,' say Dora gravely, 'but I know it be not right or kind

to say what vexe she, and I shall not stay with you any long,

Rupert, if you will do it.'



so say, Dora, well-name Discreet Dolly, run away to Lucy, of whom

she be very fond.



Rupert be both amuse and surprise at Dora's behaviour, and perhaps,

at the same time, a little ashamed and pique by a little girl of seven

year old have shew more right feeling and self-command than he have

display; and to cover all these sensation, he begin to talk nonsense

to Katherine and Harriet as fast as he could.



in the mean time Helen walk on alone, a little behind the rest of the

party; for by this time Elizabeth and Anne have come up with the other,

and have pass she.  as they enter a little copse, she begin to

recollect herself.  she have from her infancy be accustomed to give

way to fit of peevishness and fretfulness, think that as long as

her ill-humour do not burst forth in open name, as Elizabeth's use

formerly to do, there be no great harm in let it smoulder away,

and make herself and everyone else uncomfortable. some time ago,

something have bring conviction to her mind that such conduct be not

much well than bear malice and hatred in her heart, and she have

resolve to cure herself of the habit.  then come her visit to

dykeland, where everything go on smoothly, and there be little

temptation to give way to ill-humour, so that she have almost forget

her reflection on the subject, till the present moment, when she

seem suddenly to wake and find herself in the midst of one of her old

sullen mood.  she struggle hard against it, and as acknowledge ill

temper be one great step towards conquer it, she soon recover

sufficiently to admire the deep pink fruit of the skewer-wood, and the

waxen look red and yellow berry of the wild guelder rise, when

suddenly the rear of the darkness dim which over-shadow her spirit

be scatter by the lively din of a long loud whistle from Rupert, who

be conceal from she by some tree, a little in advance of she.  she

hasten forwards, and find he and all the other just emerge from

the wood, and stand on an open bare common where neither castle nor

cottage be to be see, nothing but a carpet of purple heath, dwarf

furze, and short soft grass upon which a few cow, a colt, and a

donkey, be browse.  the party be stand together, laugh,

some moderately, other immoderately.



'what be the matter?' ask Helen.



'I do not know,' say Elizabeth, 'unless Rupert be halloo because he

be out of the wood.'



'wait till you have hear my reason unfold,' say Rupert; 'do you

never hear how this celebrate fortress come by its name?'



'never,' say several voice.



'then listen, listen, lady all,' say Rupert.  'you must know that

once upon a time there be a most beautiful princess, who live in a

splendid castle, where she receive all kind of company.  well, one

day, there arrive an old grim palmer, just like the picture of

Hopeful, in the Pilgrim's Progress, with a fine stripe cockle-shell

stick upright in his hat-band.  well, the cockle-shell tickle the

Princess's fancy very much, and she make her pet knight (for she have as

many suitor as Penelope) promise that he would steal it from he that

very night.  so at the witching hour of midnight, the knight approach

the palmer's couch, and gently abstract the cockle hat and staff,

place in their stead, the jester's cap and bell, and bauble.  next

morning when it be pitch dark, for it be the short day, up jump

the palmer, and prepare to resume his journey.  now it chance that

the day before, the lady have order that the fool should be whip,

for mock she, when she could not get the marrow neatly out of a bone

with her finger, and peep into it like a hungry magpie; so that the

moment the poor palmer appear in the court-yard, all the squire and

page set upon he, take he for the fool, and whip he round and

round like any peg-top. suddenly, down fall the cap and bell, and he

see what have be do; upon which he immediately turn into an

enchanter, and command the Princess and all her train to fall into a

deep sleep, all except the knight who have commit the offence, who

be for ever ride up and down the castle court, repent of his

discourtesy, with his face towards the tail of a cream-colour donkey,

wear a cap and bell for a helmet, with a rod for a lance, and a

cockle-shell for a shield, and star-fish for spur, and the Princess

can only be disenchant by her devoted champion do battle with he.

all, however, have vanish away from vulgar eye, and can only be

bring to light by be thrice whistle for.  a slight tradition have

remain, and the place have ever since be know by the mysterious

name of Whistlefar.'



'and have no one ever find it?' say Dora.



'I cannot say,' answer Rupert.



'a deed of such high emprise can only be reserve for the great Prince

Rupert himself,' say Elizabeth.



'how can such nonsensical tradition be keep up?' say Harriet; 'I

think everyone have forget such absurd old story, only fit to

frighten child.'



'oh! you know nobody believe they,' say Katherine.



'but, Rupert,' say Helen, 'this must be a modern story, it cannot be a

genuine old legend, it be really not accord to the spirit of those

time to say that a palmer could be an enchanter, or so revengeful.'



'oh!' say Rupert, 'you know everything bad be to be learn among the

Saracens.'



'still,' say Helen, 'if you consider the purpose for which the Palmers

visit the Holy Land, you cannot think they likely to learn the dark

rite of the Infidels, and scarcely to wish to gratify personal

resentment.'



'the frock do not make the friar,' say Rupert, 'and this may have

be a bad palmer.  think of the Knights Templars.'



'besides,' say Helen, 'how could the squire see either palmer or

jester when it be pitch dark?'



'I suppose there be lamp in the court,' say Rupert; 'but



          "I cannot tell how the truth may be,

           I tell the tale as 'twas tell to I."'





'but who tell you, Rupert?' say Helen.



'why, the story of Red Mantle, Helen, cannot you see?' say Elizabeth;

'it be on the table all the morning.'



'O Lizzie, be there ever anything so cruel?' cry Rupert; 'Edie

Ochiltree be nothing to you.  everyone be swallow it so quietly,

and you will not even let I enjoy the credit of originality.'



'I be sure I give you credit due,' say Elizabeth; 'it be really an

ingenious compound of Red Mantle, the Sleeping Beauty, Robert of Paris,

and Triermain, and the cockle-shell shield and star-fish spur form an

agreeable variation.'



'I never will tell another story in your presence, Lizzie,' say

Rupert, evidently vex, but carry it off with great good humour;

'you be bad than Quarterly, Edinburgh, and Blackwood put together.'



'I really think you deserve it, Rupert,' say Anne; 'I cannot pity

you, you ought not to laugh at the pilgrim.'



'oh! I dare not open my lip before such devotee of crusading,' say

Rupert.



'and pray, Rupert,' say Elizabeth, 'what do you mean by compare I

to Edie Ochiltree? do you mean to say that you be like Monkbarns?  I

never hear that that gentleman fabricate either legend or

curiosity, and make they pass for genuine ancient one.'



at this moment, happily for Rupert, they come to the top of a small

rise ground, and beheld a farmhouse at about a hundred yard before

they.  Rupert whistle long and loud and shrill, and two or three of

the young lady exclaim, 'be this Whistlefar Castle?'



'it be only enchant,' say Elizabeth; 'clear away the mist of

incredulity from your eye, and behold keep, drawbridge, tower and

battlement, and loop-hole grate where captive weep.'



it cannot be deny that the young party be a little disappointed by

the aspect of the renowned Whistlefar, but they do ample justice to

all that be to be see; a few yard of very thick stone wall in the

court, a coat of arm carve upon a stone build into the wall upside

down, and the well-turn arch of the door-way.  some, put on Don

Quixote's eye for the occasion, see helmet in milk-pail, dungeon in

cellar, battle-axis in bill-hook, and shield in pewter-plate,

call the baby in its cradle the sleep Princess, agree that the

shield must have be reverse by order of the palmer, and that one of

the cow be the mischievous knight's cream-colour donkey; so that

laughter happily supply the place of learn lore.



on the way home the party be not quite so merry, although Helen be

unusually agreeable, and enjoy a very pleasant conversation with

Rupert and Anne, who, she be pleased to find, really think her worth

talk to.  Elizabeth be occupy with Dora, who be tired, and

want to be cheer and amuse.  she do not however forget she

bulrush, and when they come in sight of they, she run forwards to

claim Rupert's promise of gather some for she and her little brother

and sister.  this be a service of difficulty, for some of the

bulrush grow in the water, and other on deceitful ground, where a

pool appear wherever Rupert set his foot.  with two or three stride

and leap, however, he reach a little dry island, cover with a tuft

of sedge, in the midst of the marsh, and be reach some of the

bulrush with the hook of Anne's parasol, when he suddenly cry out,

'Hollo, what have we here?'



'what?' say some of the girl.



'a dead dog, I believe,' say Rupert.



'oh! let I see,' cry Harriet, advance cautiously over the morass.



'be you curious in such matter. Miss Hazleby?' say Rupert, laughing,

as Harriet came splash towards he through the wet, hold up her

frock with one hand, and stretch out the other to he, to be help

upon the island.  he pull she upon it safely, but it quake

fearfully; and there be hardly room for they both to stand on it,

while Harriet, hold fast by Rupert's hand, bent forwards, beheld the

object of her curiosity, utter a loud scream, lose her balance, and

would have fall into the river have she not be withhold by Rupert's

strength of arm.  they both slip down on the opposite side of the

island, into the black mud, and Harriet precipitately retreat to the

mainland.



'well, what be the matter?' say Elizabeth.



'oh! my poor dear little doggie!' cry Harriet.



'be it fido?' say Elizabeth; 'then, Harriet, there be no fear of your

eat he in a sausage; you may be at rest on that score.'



'but can it really be Fido?' say Katherine, press forward.



'do you wish to see?' say Rupert, 'for if so, I advise you to make

haste, the island be sink fast.'



'I be splash all over, so I do not care.  can I have one more look?'

say Harriet, in a melancholy voice.



Rupert hand she back to the island, where she take she last farewell

of poor Fido, all his long hair drench with water, and the very same

blue ribbon which she have herself tie round his neck the day before,

float, a funeral banner, on the surface of the stream. she

contemplate he until her weight and Rupert's have sink the island so

much, that it be fast become a lake, while Elizabeth whisper to

Anne to propose present she with a forget-I-not, on Fido's part.



'I hope,' say Rupert, as they proceed with their walk, 'that you be

fully sensible of poor Fido's generous self-sacrifice; he immolate

himself to remove, by the manner of his death, any suspicion of

Winifred's have the Fidophobia.'



'perhaps,' say Elizabeth, 'he have some knowledge of the frightful

suspicion which attach to he, and, like the irish varmint in St.

Patrick's day,



                      "go flop,

          slap bang into the water,

          and thus commit suicide

          to save himself from slaughter."'





they now begin to consider how Fido could have meet with his death.

Harriet be sure that some naughty boy must have throw he in.  Lucy

think that in that case he would have lose his blue ribbon; Dora

indignantly repel the charge of cruelty from the youth of

Abbeychurch; Elizabeth say such a puppy be very likely to fall off

the bridge; and Rupert decide that he have most probably be attack

by a fit, to which, he say, half-grow puppy be often liable.



Rupert and Anne then begin talk about a dog which they have lose some

time ago in nearly the same manner; and during this dialogue the party

divide, Harriet and Katherine walk on in close consultation, and

Lucy and Helen begin help Dora to sort and carry her bulrush,

which detain they behind the other.



'what appear to I the most mysterious part of the story,' say

Rupert, 'be how the beloved Fido, pet and watch and nurse and

guard as he seem to have be, should have contrive to stray from

your house as far as to the river.'



'oh! that be no mystery at all,' say Elizabeth; 'we cross the bridge

twice yesterday evening, and I dare say we leave he behind we there.'



'what could you have be do on the bridge yesterday evening?' say

Rupert.  'oh! I know; I see the people come away from a tee-total

entertainment; you be certainly there, Anne, I hope you enjoy it.'



'how very near the truth you do contrive to get, Rupert,' say

Elizabeth.



'then,' cry Rupert, with a start, 'I see it all.  I think you all

look very queer at breakfast.  I understand it all.  you have be to

the Mechanics' Institute.'



'yes, Rupert,' say Elizabeth.



'no, but you do not mean to say that you really have, Lizzie and Anne,'

cry Rupert, turn round to look into their face.



each make a sign of assent; and Rupert, as soon as he have recover

from his astonishment, burst into a violent fit of laughter, which

last long than either his sister or cousin approve, and it be not

till after he have be well scold by both, that he choose to listen to

their full account of all that have pass on the subject.



'the bad of it be, now,' say Elizabeth, 'that as soon as Mrs.

Hazleby hear that Fido have be find in the river, she will ask how

he come near it.'



'and what then?' say Anne.



'why, she well know that the bridge be not a place to which we be

likely to resort; she will ask what take we there; I would not trust

Harriet to tell the truth, and I have promise not to betray she, so

what be to be do if Mrs. Hazleby ask I?' say Elizabeth.



'I hope she will not ask her young daughter,' say Anne.



'that she shall not do,' say Elizabeth: 'I will tell she myself that

Fido be find in the river, and answer all her question as good I

can.'



'it be rather a pity,' say Anne archly, 'that Miss Hazleby do not

actually fall into the river, for the sensation cause by Rupert's

rescue she would quite have absorb all the interest in Fido's

melancholy fate.'



'thank you, Anne,' say Rupert; 'I be sure I only wonder she be not

submerge.  I never could have guess any fair lady could be so heavy.

I be sure I feel the claw she give my arm at this moment.'



'how very ungallant!' say Anne.



'still,' say Rupert, 'without appear as the preserver of the fair

Harriet from a watery grave, I think I have interest enough with Mrs.

Hazleby to be able to break the fatal news to she, and calm her first

agony of grief and wrath.'



'you, Rupert?' say Anne.



'Myself, Anne,' reply Rupert; 'you have no notion what friend Mrs.

Hazleby and I have become.  we have a tete-a-tete of an hour and a half

this morning.'



'what could you find to talk about?' say Anne.



'first,' say Rupert, 'she ask about my grouse shooting; where I

go, and with whom, and whether I have see any of the Campbells of

Inchlitherock.  of course we embark in a genealogy of the whole

Campbell race; then come a description of the beauty of

Inchlitherock.   next I be favour with her private history; how she,

be one of thirteen, be force, at eighteen, to leave the lovely

spot, and embark with her brother for India.'



'on speculation,' say Elizabeth.



'and finally, how she come to marry the Major.'



'o Rupert, that be too much; you must have invent it!' cry Anne.



'indeed I do not, Anne,' say Rupert; 'it be a fact that she live

somewhere in the Mofussil with her brother, and there she encounter

the Major.  you, young lady, may imagine how she fascinate he, and

how finally her brother seem to have bully the Major into marry

she.'



'poor man!' say Elizabeth, 'I always wonder how he chance to fall

into her clutch.  but do you hear no more?'



'no more of her personal history,' say Rupert; 'she kindly employ

the rest of her time in give I wise counsel.'



'oh! pray let we have the benefit of they,' say Anne, who have by this

time pretty well forget her prudence.



'there be many regret that I be not in the army,' say Rupert, 'and

many piece of advice which would have be very useful if I have, but

which I be afraid be throw away upon I, end with wise

reflection upon the importance of a wise choice of a wife, especially

for a young man of family, expose to danger from design young

lady, with caution against beauty because of its perishable nature,

and learn, because literary lady be fit for nothing.'



'meaning to imply,' say Elizabeth, 'how fortunate be Major Hazleby in

meeting with so sweet a creature as the charming Miss Barbara Campbell,

possess of neither of these dangerous quality.'



'I do not know,' say Anne; 'I think she might have possess some of

the former when she leave Inchlitherock.'



'before twenty year of manage and scolding have fix her eye in one

perpetual stare,' say Elizabeth.  'but here we be at home.'



they find the hall table cover with parcel, which shew that Mrs.

Woodbourne and her party have return from their drive, and the girl

hasten up-stair.



Anne find her mamma in her room, as well as Sir Edward, who be

finish a letter.



'well, Mamma, have you a prosperous journey?' say she.



'yes, very much so,' say Lady Merton: 'Mrs. Hazleby be in high

good-humour, she do nothing but sing Rupert's praise, and do not

scold Mrs. Woodbourne as much as usual.'



'and what have you be do, Miss Anne?' say Sir Edward; 'you be

quite on the qui vive.'



'oh! I have be laugh at the fun which Rupert and Lizzie have be

make about Mrs. Hazleby,' say Anne; 'I really could not help it,

Mamma, and I do not think I begin it.'



'begin what?' say Sir Edward.



'why, Mamma be afraid I should seem to set Lizzie against her

step-mother's relation, if I quiz they or abuse they,' say Anne.



'I do not think what you could say would make much difference in

Lizzie's opinion of they,' say Sir Edward, 'but certainly I should

think they be not the good subject of conversation here.'



'but I have not tell you of the grand catastrophe,' say Anne; 'we have

find poor Fido drown among the bulrush.'



'I hope Mrs. Woodbourne will be happy again,' say Lady Merton.



'and, Mamma, he must have fall in while we be at the Mechanics'

Institute,' say Anne; 'there be one bad consequence of our folly

already.'



'I cannot see what induce you to go,' say Sir Edward; 'I think

Lizzie have more sense.'



'I believe the actual impulse be give by a dispute between Lizzie and

I on the date of chivalry,' say Anne.



'and so Rupert's friend, the Turners, be great authority in

history,' say Sir Edward; 'I never should have suspect it.'



'now I think of it,' say Anne, 'it be the most ridiculous part of the

affair, consider the blunder that Lizzie tell I Mrs. Turner make

about St. Augustine.  what could we have be dream of?'



'Midsummer madness,' say Sir Edward.



'but just tell I, Papa,' say Anne, 'do you not think Helen quite the

heroine of the story?'



'I think Helen very much improve in appearance and manner,' say Sir

Edward; 'and I be quite willing to believe all that I see you have to

tell I of she.'



'do not wait to tell it now, Anne,' say Lady Merton, 'or Mrs.

Woodbourne will not think we improve in appearance or manner. it be

nearly six o'clock.'



'I will keep it all for the journey home,' say Anne, 'when Papa's ear

will be disengage.'



'and his tongue too, to give you a lecture upon Radicalism, Miss,' say

Sir Edward, with a fierce gesture, which drive Anne away laugh.



Elizabeth have finish dressing, a little too rapidly, and have go to

find Mrs. Woodbourne.  'well, Mamma,' say she, as soon as she come

into her room, 'winifre have live to say 'the dog be dead'.'



'what do you mean, my dear?' say Mrs. Woodbourne.



'the enemy be dead, Mamma,' say Elizabeth; 'we find he drown by

the green meadow.'



'poor little fellow! your aunt will be very sorry,' be kind Mrs.

Woodbourne's remark.



'but now, Mamma,' say Elizabeth, 'you may be quite easy about

winifre; he could not possibly have be mad.'



'how could he have fall in, poor little dog?' say Mrs. Woodbourne.



'he must have stray about upon the bridge while we be at the

Mechanics' Institute,' say Elizabeth; 'it be all my fault, and I be

afraid it be a very great distress to Lucy.  Helen might well say

mischief would come of our go.'



'I wish the loss of Fido be all the mischief likely to come of it, my

dear,' say Mrs. Woodbourne, with a sigh; 'I be afraid your papa will

be very much annoyed by it, with so much as he have on his mind too.'



'ah! Mamma, that be the bad of it, indeed,' say Elizabeth, cover

her face with her hand; 'if I could do anything--'



'my dear child,' say Mrs. Woodbourne, 'do not go on make yourself

unhappy, I be very sorry I say anything about your papa; you know he

cannot be angry with one who grieve so sincerely for what she have do

amiss.  I be sure you have learn a useful lesson, and will be wise in

future.  now do put your scarf even, and let I pin this piece of lace

straight for you, it be high on one side than the other, and your

band be twist.'



on her side, Lucy, tremble as she enter her mother's room, but firm

in her purpose of preserve her sister from the temptation to

prevaricate, by take all the blame which Mrs. Hazleby choose to

ascribe to she, quietly communicate the fatal intelligence to Mrs.

Hazleby.  her information be receive with a short angry 'h--m,' and

no more be say upon the matter, as Mrs. Hazleby be eager to shew

Harriet some wonderful bargain which she have meet with at Baysmouth.









CHAPTER XI.





as soon as Mrs. Hazleby make her appearance in the drawing-room before

dinner, Rupert begin repeat,



          'the wound it seem both sore and sad

             to every christian eye,

           and while they swear the dog be mad,

             they swear the child would die,



           but soon a wonder come to light,

             that shew the rogue they lie,

           the child recover of the bite,

             it be the dog that die.'





'I beg to offer my congratulation,' continue he, set a chair for

she.



Mrs. Hazleby look surprised.



'on the demonstration we have this day receive of your superior

judgement, Ma'am,' say Rupert, 'though indeed we could hardly have

doubt it before.'



'pray let I understand you, Mr. Merton,' say Mrs. Hazleby.



'have you not hear of the circumstance to which I allude?' say

Rupert; 'for if you be not already aware of it, I must beg to be

excuse from relate it; I could not bear to give so great a shock to

a lady's feeling.'



'oh! you mean about Fido,' say Mrs. Hazleby, almost smile; 'yes,

Lucy tell I that you have find he.  really, my girl be so careless,

I can trust nothing to they.'



'indeed, Madam,' say Rupert, 'I assure you that nothing could have

be more heart-rend than the scene present to our eye when the

Miss Hazlebys first become aware of the untimely fate of their

favourite.  who could behold it with dry eye--or dry foot?' add he,

in an under-tone, with a side glance at Anne.



Rupert contrive to talk so much nonsense to Mrs. Hazleby, that he

charm she with his attention, give she no time to say anything about

Fido, and leave Anne much surprised that she have never find out that he

be laugh at she.  at dinner, the grouse he have bring come to

their aid; Mrs. Hazleby be delighted to taste a blackcock once more,

and be full of reminiscence of Inchlitherock; and by mean of these

recollection, and Rupert's newly import history, Sir Edward and

Mr. Woodbourne contrive to make the conversation more entertaining

than Elizabeth think it ever could be in any party in which Mrs.

Hazleby be present.



afterwards in the drawing-room, Dora's bulrush and the other

child's purchase be duly admire, and the little people, be

rather fatigued, be early send to bed, although Edward vehemently

insist, with his eye half shut, that he be not in the least sleepy.

the elder girl then arrange themselves round the table. Helen be

work a bunch of rose of different colour; Anne admire it very

much, but critic be not want to this, as to every other

performance of Helen's.



'it be all very pretty except that rise,' say Katherine, 'but I be

sure that be an unnatural colour.--Is it not, Anne?'



'I do not think that I ever see one like it,' say Anne; 'but that be

no proof that there be no such flower.'



'what do you think, Lizzie?' say Katherine; 'ought not Helen to alter

it?'



Anne be rather alarm by this appeal; but Elizabeth answer

carelessly, without look up, 'oh! you know I know nothing about that

kind of work.'



'but you can tell what colour a rose be,' persist Katherine; 'now do

not you think Helen will spoil her work with that orange-coloured rose?

who ever hear of such a thing?'



Helen be on the point of say that one of the gable-end of the

house at Dykelands be cover with a single rose of that colour, but

she remember that dykeland be not a safe subject, and refrain.



'come, do not have a York and Lancaster war about an orange-colour

rise, Kate,' say Elizabeth, come up to Helen; 'why, Anne, where be

your eye? do you never see an austrian briar, just the the colour of

Helen's lamb-wool?'



though this be a mere trifle, Helen be pleased to find that Elizabeth

could sometimes be on her side of the question, and work on in a more

cheerful spirit.



'why, Anne,' say Elizabeth, presently after, 'you be do that old

wreath over again, that you be about last year, when I be at Merton

Hall.'



'yes,' say Anne; 'it be a pattern which I like very much.'



'do you like work the same thing over again?' say Katherine; 'I

always get tired of it.'



'I like it very much,' say Anne; 'go over the same stitch put I

in mind of thing that be go on when I be work they

before.--Now, Lizzie, the edge of that poppy seem to have write in

it all that delightful talk we have together, at home, about grow up,

that day when Papa and Mamma dine out, and we have it all to ourselves.

and the iris have the whole of Don Quixote fold up in it, because papa

be read it to we, when I be at work upon it.'



'there certainly seem to be a use and pleasure in never sit down

three minute without that carpet-work, which I should never have

suspect,' say Elizabeth.



'Anne think as I do,' say Mrs. Woodbourne; 'I find carpet-work quite

a companion to I, but I cannot persuade Lizzie to take any pleasure in

it.'



'I have not time for it,' say Elizabeth, 'nor patience if I have time.

it be all I can persuade myself to do to keep my clothe from be

absolute rag.'



'yes,' say Katherine; 'you always read with Meg in your lap, when you

have no mending to do; you have be six month braid that frock.'



'oh! that be company work,' say Elizabeth; 'I begin it at Merton Hall

for Dora, but I believe Winifred must have it now.  but now it be so

nearly do, that I shall finish while you be here.'



Elizabeth do not however long continue work, for as soon as tea be

over she propose to play at the game of Conglomeration, as she have

talk of do in the course of the walk.  'I give notice, however,'

say she, 'that we be likely to laugh more than will suit the gravity

of the elder, therefore I recommend adjourn to the inner

drawing-room.--Mamma, may we have candle there?'



Consent be give, and while the candle be be bring, and

Elizabeth be look out some paper, Anne whisper to her brother,

'Rupert, pray say nothing about Fido, or the Mechanics' Institute, or

something unpleasant will surely come of it.'



'oh! Anne,' be the answer, 'you have rob I of my good couplet--



          weeping like forsaken Dido,

          when she find the slaughter Fido.



where be the use of play if there be to be no fun?'



''where be the use of fun?' say the cockchafer to the boy who be

spin it,' say Anne.



'Impertinence, impertinence, impertinence,' say Rupert, shake his

head at she.



by this time all be ready, and Elizabeth call the brother and sister

to take their place at the table in the inner drawing-room. she then

write a substantive at the upper end of a long strip of paper, and

fold it down, hand it on to Lucy, who also write a noun, turn it

down, and give the paper to Helen, who, after write her and hiding

it, pass it on to Rupert.  thus the paper be hand round till it

be fill.  it be then unroll, and each player be require to

write a copy of verse in which these word be to be introduce as

rhyme in the order in which they stand in the list.  Rupert be rather

put out by his sister's not allow he to turn the poem in the way he

wish, and he think proper to find fault with half the word in the

list.



'HARROGATE,' say he, 'what be to be do with such a word?'



'you can manage it very well if you choose,' say Elizabeth.



'but who could have think of such a word?' say he, hold up the

list to the candle, and scrutinize the writing.  'some one with a

watery taste, doubtless.'



'you know those thing be never divulge,' say Anne.



'france, too,' continue Rupert, 'there be another impossible case; I

will answer for it, Helen write that, a reminiscence of dear dykeland.'



'no, indeed I do not,' say Helen; 'it be FRANCIS, too, I believe.'



'oh yes,' say Harriet, 'it be FRANCIS, I write it, because--do not you

remember, Lucy?--Frank Hollis--'



'well, never mind,' say Elizabeth, who wish to hear no more of that

gentleman; 'you may make it whichever you please.  and Rupert, pray do

not be so idle; put down the list, no one can see it; write your own

verse, and tell I the next word to witch.'



'eyes,' say Rupert, 'and then BOUNCE.  I do not believe that word be

English.'



'BOUNCE, no,' say Katherine; 'it be BONNET, I write it myself.'



'then why do you make your 't' so short?' say Rupert; 'I must give you

a writing lesson, Miss Kitty.'



'I must give you a lesson in silence, Mr. Rupert,' say Elizabeth.



'I obey,' say Rupert, with a funny face of submission, and take up

his paper and pencil; but in a minute or two he start up, exclaim,

'what be they say about Oxford?' and walk into the next room,

intend to take part in the conversation between his father and

uncle.  Mr. Woodbourne, however, who be no great admirer of Rupert's

forwardness, do not shew so much deference to his nephew's opinion as

to make he very unwilling to return to the inner drawing-room, when

Anne come to tell he that all the poem be finish, and Elizabeth

ready to read they aloud.



'so this be all that you have to shew for yourself,' say Elizabeth,

hold up a scrap of paper; 'what be all this?'



'a portrait of Miss Merton,' say Rupert; 'do not you see the poet's

eye in a fine frenzy roll?'



'be it?' say Elizabeth; 'I take it for Miss Squeers in the agony of

death, as I see that be the subject of the poem--all that there be of

it, at least.



    do ever you see a stupider POEM?

    pray who be the author?  I know he, I know he,

    he go to school to Mr. Squeers,

    who often make the youth shed TEARS.



now for the next, which be nearly as short.





    I will write a POEM,

    clear and flow,

    it will make you shed TEARS,

    and excite your fear.

    'tis about a witch,

    drown in a ditch,

    your tear come from your eyes.

    if you be wise,

    don't make a bounce,

    or you'll tear your flounce,

    and upset the sugar JAR,

    which I cannot spare,

    I must give some to FRANCIS,

    so well he dance;

    Sugar cane pack up in LEAVES,

    the cane be tie up like wheat sheaf;

    Francis wear a scarlet jacket,

    he make a dreadful racket

    at HARROGATE,

    because he have to wait,

    in a field of BARLEY,

    to hold a parley,

    about a bone of marrow;

    his heart be transfix by an ARROW,

    by a lady in VELVET,

    and he be her pet.'





all laugh heartily at this poem, which perhaps divert they more

than a well would have do; Harriet be highly delighted with what

she consider their applause, though she know that of all the rhyme,

scarcely three have be find by herself.



'why, Mr. Merton, what be you do?' ask Harriet; 'be you write

any more?'



'oh! I hope he will tell we about Mr. Squeers,' say Katherine.



no one could doubt that the next which Elizabeth read be her own.





    I'm afraid you expect a beautiful poem,

    though I make a long and tedious proem,

    but great and dreadful be my fear,

    no poem of mine will put you in TEARS.

    my genius suggest neither fairy nor witch,

    my tale to adorn with cauldron of pitch,

    Alarm the world with fiery eyes,

    and from the hero snatch his prize,

    leap out from her den with a terrible bounce,

    and on the trembling damsel pounce,

    and bottle she up in a close cork JAR,

    or whirl she away in a flaming car;

    then her knight, the brave Sir FRANCIS,

    upon his noble steed advance,

    all his armour off he leave,

    Preserves alone his polished greave,

    his defence be a buff JACKET,

    nor sword nor axe nor lance can crack it,

    it be make at HARROGATE,

    by a tailor whose shop have a narrow gate;

    the elf attack with spear of BARLEY,

    but he drive they off, oh! rarely,

    then they shoot he with an ARROW,

    from bow-string grease with ear-wig' marrow,

    the feather, moth-wing downy VELVET,

    the bow-string, of the spider's net:

    thousand come, arm in this PATTERN,

    which prove their mistress be no slattern;

    some wear the leg and hoof of PAN,

    and some be in the form of man;

    but the knight be arm, for in his pocket

    he have a talismanic locket,

    which once belong to HERCULES,

    who wear it on his bunch of key;

    the fairy come, quite old and fat,

    Mounted upon a monstrous BAT;

    around the knight a web she weave,

    and hold he fast, and there she leave

    Sir Francis weep for his charmer,

    and long for his knightly ARMOUR.

    but his sword be cast in the self-same forge

    as that of the great champion GEORGE;

    thus he defy the witch's army,

    he break his band; 'ye elf, beware I,

    I fear not your leviathan,

    no spell can stop a desperate man.'

    away in terror fly the rear-GUARD,

    he seize on the witch abhor,

    confine she in a COCKLE SHELL,

    and break all her enchantment fall,

    catch her principal LIEUTENANT,

    make he of a split pine the tenant;

    carry away the lady, nimble,

    as e'er Miss Merton ply her thimble;

    oh! this story would your frown unbend.

    could I tell it to the END.





'oh!' say Rupert, glad to seize an opportunity of retaliate upon

Elizabeth; 'I give you credit; a very ingenious compound of Thalaba,

pigwiggin, and the Tempest, and the circumstance of the witch whirling

away the lady be something new.'



'no, it be not,' say Elizabeth; 'it be the beginning of the story of

the Palace of Truth, in the Veillees du Chateau.  I only profess to

conglomerate the word, not to pass off my story as a regular old

traditional legend.'



'well, well,' say Rupert; 'go on; have you only two more?'



'only two,' say Elizabeth; 'Kate and Lucy behave as shabbily as you

do.  Helen, I believe you must read your.  I can never read your

writing readily, and besides, I be grow hoarse.'



Helen obey.





    how hard it be to write a POEM,

      graceful and witty, plain and clear,

    hard than ploughing--'tis, or sowing,

      so hard that I should shed a tear.



    do I not know the high pitch

      of merit, in the poet's eyes

    be but to laugh, a height to which

      'tis not so hard for I to rise.



    for badness soon be gain, forth BOUNCE

      my rhyme such as they be;

    good critic, on my line don't pounce,

      though on the ear they JAR.



    I've have a letter from dear france,

      who say, through the light plane tree leave,

    upon the lawn the sun-beam glance,

      the wheat be bind up in its sheaf



    by Richard, in the fustian JACKET

      his mistress buy at HARROGATE,

    and up in lofty rick they stack it,

      there for the threshing will it wait.



    then will they turn to field of BARLEY,

      Bearded and barb with many an ARROW,

    just where the fertile soil be marly,

      and in the spring be use the harrow.



    draw by the steed in coat of VELVET,

      Old Steady, Jack, and Slattern,

    their mane well comb, and black as jet,

      their tail in the same PATTERN.



    while Richard's son, with pipe of PAN,

      his hand within his pockets,

    walk close beside the old plough-man,

      dreaming of squibs and rocket.



    that youth, he greatly love his ease,

      he's grow much too fat,

    and though as strong as HERCULES,

      he'll only use his BAT.



    he willn't sweep up the autumn LEAVES,

      the tree's deciduous ARMOUR,

    no scold Dickey's spirit grieve

      like work like a farmer,



    or labour like his cousin GEORGE,

      with arm all bare and brawny,

    within the blacksmith's glow forge;

      he would be in the ARMY.



    but no, young Dick, you're not the man

      our realm to watch and ward,

    for bad than a LEVIATHAN

      you'd dread the foe's rear-guard,



    and in the storm of shot and SHELL,

      you'd soon desert your pennant,

    care nought for serjeant, corporal,

      or general LIEUTENANT,



    but prove yourself quite swift and nimble,

      and thus would meet your END;

    no, well take a tailor's thimble

      and learn your way to mend.





'Capital, Helen!' say Elizabeth.



'how very pretty!' say Lucy.



'and very well describe,' say Anne; 'you have bring in those

ungainly word most satisfactorily.'



'now, Helen, here be Anne's,' say Elizabeth; 'it be a choice one, and

I have keep it for the last.'



'let I read Anne's,' say Rupert; 'no one can decypher her writing as

well as I can.'



'as be prove by the thorough acquaintance you shew with the

content of her last letter,' say Elizabeth.



Rupert begin as follow:



    now must I write in number flow

    extemporaneously a POEM?





'why, Rupert,' cry Anne, 'you must be read Kate's.  mine begin

with--'



'I declare that I have yours in my hand, Anne,' say Rupert.



'and I do not write one,' say Katherine.





    now must I write in number flow

    extemporaneously a POEM?

    one that will fill your eye with TEARS,

    while I relate how our bad fear

    be realize in yonder ditch.

    convey there by some water-WITCH,

    we find, sad sight for long EYES!

    Fido, much love, though small in size.

    hard fate, but while our tear bemoan it,

    let we take up the corpse and bone it,

    then place the mummy in a JAR,

    keep it from sausage-maker far,

    extract his heart to send to FRANCIS;

    this gift from she, his soul entrance,

    within his scarlet gold-laced jacket

    his heart make a tremendous racket;

    vision of bliss arise, a surrogate,

    ay, and a wedding tour to HARROGATE.





when Rupert come to Fido, Anne utter one indignant 'Rupert!' but as

he proceed, she be too much confound to make the slight

demonstration, and yet she be nearly suffocated with laughter in the

midst of her vexation, when she think of the ball at Hull, and 'Frank

Hollis.'  Elizabeth and Katherine too be excessively divert, though

the former repent of having ever propose such a game for so

incongruous a party.  there be a little self-reproach mingle even

with Anne's merriment, for she feel that if she have more carefully

abstain from criticise the hazleby, or from look amuse by what

be say of they, Rupert would hardly have attempt this piece of

impertinence.  Helen, who consider it as a most improper proceeding,

sit perfectly still and silent, with a countenance full of demure

gravity, which make Elizabeth and Anne fall into fresh convulsion as

they look at she; Lucy only blush; and as for Harriet, the last two

line could scarcely be hear, for her exclamation of, 'o Mr. Merton,

that be too bad!  o Mr. Merton, how could you think of such a thing?  O

Mr. Merton, I can never forgive you!  oh dear! oh dear!  I shall never

stop laugh.  oh dear!  Mr. Merton, what would Frank Hollis say to

you? how ridiculous!'



'now for Anne's real poem, Rupert,' say Elizabeth, not choose to

make any remark, lest Rupert should consider they as compliment.



'have you not hear it?' say Rupert.



'nonsense,' say Elizabeth.



'why, I tell you I have it in my hand,' say Rupert.



'and you have it still,' say Elizabeth; 'deliver it up, if you please;

it be the good of all, I can tell you, I have a cursory view of it.'



'no, no,' say Anne, who see that her brother mean to teaze she, and

not to restore her verse; 'it be a very poor performance, it be much

well for my fame that it should never be see.  only think what a

sublime notion the world will have of it, when it be say that even the

great Rupert himself be afraid to let it appear.'



Elizabeth make another attempt to regain the poem, but without effect,

and Anne recall the attention of all to Helen's verse.



'what be a pennant?' say Elizabeth; 'I do not like word to be twist

for the sake of the rhyme.'



a flag,' say Helen.



'I never doubt that you intend it for a flag,' say Elizabeth; 'but

what I complain of be, that it be a transmogrified pennon.'



'I believe a pennant to be a kind of flag,' say Helen.



'let we refer the question to papa,' say Anne, 'as soon as he have

finish that interminable conversation with Uncle Woodbourne.'



'really, in spite of that slight blemish,' say Elizabeth, 'your poem

be the good we have hear, Helen.'



'and I can testify,' say Rupert, 'that the description of the

cart-horse at Dykelands be perfectly correct.  but, Helen, be it true

that your friend Dicky have be seize with a fit of martial ardour

such as you describe?'



'yes,' say Helen, 'he be very near enlisting, but it make his mother

very unhappy, and Mrs. Staunton--'



'go down upon her knee to beseech he to remain, and let her roast

beef be food for he, not himself be food for powder,' say Rupert,

'never consider how glad the parish would be to get rid of he.'



'no,' say Helen, 'her powder become food for he; she make he

under-gamekeeper.'



'Excellent, Helen, you shine to-night,' cry Elizabeth; 'such a bit of

wit never be hear from you before.'



'your poem be a proof that the good way of be original be to

describe thing as you actually see they,' say Anne.



'be not mine original?  I do not think it be take from any book,'

say Harriet, willing to pick up a little more praise.



'not perhaps from any book,' say Elizabeth, with a very grave face;

'but I be afraid we must convict you of having borrow from the mother

of book, oral tradition.'



'oral tradition!' repeat Harriet, open her mouth very wide.



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'for I cannot help imagine that the former

part of your ode be a parody upon



            "I'll tell you a story

          about Jack A'Nory,

             and now my story's begin;

          I'll tell you another

             about Jack and his brother,

          and now my story be do."



and that your friend Francis must have be the hero who complain so

grievously of Taffy the Welshman, whose house be doubtless situate in

a field of barley, while his make a dreadful racket be quite

accord to the ancient notion of what he do with the marrow-bone.'



'oh! there be Papa look in at we,' say Anne; 'now for the question

of pennon and pennant.'



'oh! Anne, it be all nonsense,' cry Helen; 'do not shew it.'



but Anne, with Helen's paper in her hand, have already attack Sir

Edward, who, to the author's great surprise, actually read the poem all

through, smile very kindly, and finish by say, 'ah ha! Helen, it

be plain enough that your friend be naval.  I can see where your

pennant come from.'



'but be it not a flag, Uncle Edward?' ask Helen.



'a flag it be,' say Sir Edward, 'and properly call and spelt

pendant.'



'there, Helen, you be an antidote to the hydrophobia,' say Rupert;

'everything becomes--'



'do not let we have any more of that stale joke,' say Elizabeth; 'it

be really only a poetical license to use a sea-flag for a land-flag,

and Helen have the advantage of we, since we none of we know that

Pennant signify anything but the naturalist.'



'and pray, Helen,' say Sir Edward, 'be I to consider this poem as an

equivalent for the music you have cheat we of, this evening?'



'I hope you will consider that it be,' say Elizabeth; 'be it not

positively poetical, Uncle Edward?'



Helen be hardly ever in a state of great surprise and pleasure than

at this moment, for though she could not seriously believe that her

line be worthy of all the encomium bestow on they, yet she be

now convince that Elizabeth be not absolutely determined to

depreciate every performance of her, and that she really possess a

little kindness for she.



when Mr. Woodbourne ring the bell, Elizabeth gather up all the

paper, and be go to put they into a drawer, when Harriet come up

to she, say in a whisper, evidently design to attract notice,

'Lizzie, do give I that ridiculous thing, you know, of Mr. Merton's; I

could not bear you to have it, you would shew it to everyone.'



'indeed I should do no such thing,' say Elizabeth; 'I never wish to

see it more, you be very welcome to it.'



Harriet receive the precious document with great satisfaction,

carefully fold it up, and place it in her bag, very much to Rupert's

delight, as he silently watch her proceeding.



when they go up to bed, Anne follow Lady Merton to her room, in

order to ask some question about the dress which she be to wear the

next day, Sunday, and after remain with she a few minute, she

return to Elizabeth.  she find she look full of trouble, quite a

contrast to the bright animate creature she have be a few minute

before.



'my dear Lizzie,' exclaim Anne, 'have anything happen? what have

grieve you?'



'why, Anne,' say Elizabeth, with almost a groan, 'have not enough

happen to grieve I? be it not terrible to think of what I have do?'



Anne stand still and silent, much strike by her cousin's sorrow; for

she have consider their expedition to the Mechanics' Institute as a

foolish girlish frolic, but by no mean as serious a matter as it now

prove to be.



'I want you to tell I, Anne,' continue Elizabeth; 'be I not quite

out of my sense yesterday evening?  I can hardly believe it be myself

who go to that horrible place, I wish you could prove that it be my

double-ganger.'



Anne laugh,



'but do it not seem incredible,' say Elizabeth, 'that I, Elizabeth

Woodbourne, should have voluntarily meddle with a radical, level

affair, should have seek out Mrs. Turner and all the set I most

dislike, do perhaps an infinity of mischief, and all because Kate

want to go out on a party of pleasure with that foolish Willie. oh!

Anne, I wish you would beat I.'



'would that be any comfort to you?' say Anne, smile.



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'I should feel as if I be suffer a little

for my madness.  oh! how I hope Papa will speak to I about it.  if he

do not, I shall see his displeasure in his eye, and oh! I could bear

anything well than the silent stern way in which he use to look at

I, once before, when I have behave very ill.  and then, to-morrow be

Sunday, and I shall scarcely see he all day, and he will have no time

to speak to I; and how can I get through a Sunday, feel that he be

angry with I? how shall I teach the child, or do anything as usual?

Anne, what do you think be the first sound in my ear when I awake

this morning, and have be return upon I all day?--the word, "it

be a tree to be desire to make one wise."'



'little wisdom we have gain from it,' say Anne.



'Eve's wisdom,' say Elizabeth, 'the knowledge of evil, and the wisdom

of vanity and vexation of spirit.  but be it not curious, Anne? when

first I wake, before I have open my eye, those word be sound in

my ear, like a dream of Papa's voice, read the Lesson at church; I

almost fall asleep again, and again those word come back in Papa's

voice, and then I wake entirely, and before I have see what kind of day

it be, before I know whether it be Saturday or Sunday, I be sure

there be something wrong, and then there be all this black Mechanics'

Institute business before I.  and all through this day those word

have be ring in my ear, and come upon I like the pressure of

King James's iron belt.'



'have they indeed?' say Anne, 'I could hardly have believe it. I have

not see your "look o'ercast and low," like his.'



'perhaps not,' say Elizabeth; 'but yet I be like he.



          "forward he rush with double glee

           into the tide of revelry."



and I believe that have anything on my mind put I in wilder

spirit, apparently, than usual, but I be sure that my merriment to-day

be no proof that I be happy.  it be partly, I believe, from a mad

spirit, like what drive wicked man to drink, and partly from folly

and levity.  it be the same when Mamma's sister, Miss Dorothea

Hazleby, die; I be sure I be very sorry for Aunt Dorothy, for she be

a most amiable person, and have always be particularly kind to I, and

I be very sorry too for Mamma and old Mrs. Hazleby, who be

break-hearted about it; yet would you believe it? the very day that

Papa be go to Hastings, to the funeral, and Mamma be at home, too

ill and too wretched to go, even to her mother, I be out in the garden

with Horace and Dora, forget all about her distress, and begin a noisy

game with they close under her window.  she send Kate to tell they not

to make such a noise; and when we come in, and she find that it be my

do, she give I such a kind, grieve, reproachful look, that I think

I shall never forget it.  and now it be most strange to think how

wildly and merrily I laugh at all Rupert's joke, when I know I be

in disgrace, and after having behave so very ill.'



'indeed, I do not think it would have distress you so much,' say

Anne; 'I never think it be more than a very foolish affair.'



'it be a very different thing for you,' say Elizabeth; 'you have

nothing to do with the town, and you need not have know that it be

not a fit place to go to.'



'but you do not know that it be not fit for we,' say Anne.



'I do know that I ought not to go where I have not be tell I might

go,' say Elizabeth.  'it be rely on my own judgement that lead I

astray.  but, oh! I wish I have be here at the time the Socialist

lecture be give; I should as soon have think of climb up the

kitchen-chimney, as of go to that den, and give the ragamuffin

such a victory over papa.'



'it be very silly of we not to ask a few more question,' say Anne.



'ah! that be the bad part of my behaviour,' say Elizabeth; 'that

abominably unfair account which I give you, at Mr. Turner's door, of

Helen's objection.  it be in fact almost deceit, and the only thing

that can take off from the blackness of it, be that I be sufficiently

senseless to believe it myself at the time I speak.'



'oh yes, of course you do,' say Anne.



'yet there must have be a sort of feeling that your hear she

argument would put a stop to the beautiful scheme,' say Elizabeth;

'you do not know, perhaps, that Kate be nearly convince by Helen's

good sense, and I do believe that the reason I be not, be, what I

tremble to think of, that I have be indulge in a frightful spirit

of oppose and despise Helen, because I be angry with she for

love dykeland well than home.  I do believe she hardly dare to

open her lip.  I hear she tell Lucy afterwards that there be a

rise at dykeland of the colour of her pattern, and I dare say she do

not say so, when it would have be to the purpose, for fear I should

say that damp turn rose orange-colour; and I could see she do not

defend she pendant with Captain Atherley for fear I should tell she he

be not infallible.  no wonder she pine for dykeland; a fine sort of

sister and home she have find here, poor child.'



'oh! now you think so--' Anne begin, but here she stop short,

check by her dread of interfere between sister; she could not bear

to add to Elizabeth's bitter feeling of self-reproach, and she could

not say that her conduct on the precede evening have be by any mean

what it ought to have be, that she have treat Helen kindly, or that

Helen have not suffer much from her want of consideration for she.

she only kiss her cousin, and wish her good night very

affectionately, and nothing more be say that evening.



but Anne's silence be often very expressive to those who could

understand it, and of these Elizabeth be one.



the toilette of Katherine and Helen pass in a very different manner

that evening; Katherine do nothing but giggle and chatter incessantly,

about the game they have be play at, in order to prevent Helen from

say anything about the result of their excursion the evening before,

and to keep herself from think of the cowardly part she have be

act all day.  Helen only wish to be leave in peace, to think over

her share in all these transaction, and to consider how she might

become a tolerably useful member of society for the future; and on she

make no reply to one of Katherine's speech, the latter suddenly

become silent, and she be leave to her own reflection.









CHAPTER XII.





Elizabeth be always fully employ on a Sunday, and on that which

follow the Consecration she have perhaps more on her hand even than

usual, so that she have little opportunity for speak, or even for

thinking, of her trouble.



Mr. Woodbourne be go to assist Mr. Somerville in the service at

St. Austin's, leave Mr. Walker to do the duty at St. Mary's, as the

old church be now to be always call.



Mr. Somerville have ask Mrs. Woodbourne to bring all her party to

luncheon at his house, and have add a special invitation to the

child to be present at the opening of the new Sunday-school, which

be to take place between the service.  it be however necessary that

someone should stay and superintend what the young people call,

rather contemptuously, 'the old school;' and this Elizabeth undertook,

say that she do not like to lose one Sunday's teaching of her own

class.  Anne be about to offer to remain with she and assist she, but

on Helen's make the same proposal, she think it well to give the

sister an opportunity of be alone together, and, as she be more

desirous of do right than of appear eager to be useful, she say

nothing of what she have intend.  Elizabeth be much gratified by her

sister's voluntary proffer of assistance, for the head and front of

Helen's offence on her return from dykeland, have be, that she have

loathe the idea of help to train the scream school-girl to sing

in church, and have altogether shew far less interest in parish matter

than Elizabeth think their due.



'I be sure,' say Elizabeth, as they be walk from school to

church, 'it be worth while to stay to see the aisle now it be clear of

the bench, and there be breathing room leave in the dear old church.

and listen to the bell! do not it seem as if the two church be

exchange greeting on St. Austin's first Sunday? yes, St. Mary's be

our home, our mother church,' add she, as she walk under the heavy

stone porch, its groin roof rich with quaint boss, the support of

many a swallow's nest, and come in sight of the huge old square font,

stand on one large column and four small one, where she herself and

all her brother and sister have be christen.



the three little child be not to go to St. Austin's in the

morning, but Katherine have promise to come back to fetch they in time

for the luncheon at Mr. Somerville's, and thus Dora have the full

advantage of study the Puddington monument before the service begin.



Katherine and Harriet come back whilst Elizabeth and Helen be at

luncheon, and after give they a list of half the people who be at

church, they call the child to come to Mr. Somerville's with they.



'why do not you put on your bonnet, Dora?' say Winifred.



'I be not go,' say Dora.



'why not?' ask Winifred.



'because I have rather not,' be the answer.



'why, you silly little child,' say Katherine; 'be you shy of Mr.

Somerville? look there, Edward and Winifred be not shy, and you be

quite a great girl.  how Horace would laugh!'



'I cannot help it,' say Dora; 'I have rather not go.'



'if you be think of your little class, Dora,' say Elizabeth, 'I

will hear they for you; you will trust they with I, will you not? and

I will remember who be first.'



'thank you,' say Dora; 'I have rather go to church and school with you.'



'Nonsense, Dora,' say Katherine; 'I wish you would come.'



'now do,' say Harriet; 'you cannot think what a nice luncheon Mr.

Somerville will have for you.'



'there be a very nice luncheon here,' say Dora.



'oh! but not like a company luncheon,' say Harriet; 'besides, Mr.

Somerville will be so disappointed if you do not come.  Poor Mr.

Somerville, willn't you be sorry for he, Dora?'



'oh no, he do not want I--do he, Lizzie?' say Dora.



'no, I do not suppose he do,' say Elizabeth; 'he only ask you out

of good nature.'



'well, if Dora will not come,' say Katherine, 'there be no use in

staying.--Come, Winifred and Edward.'



Elizabeth be sure that Dora have reason of her own for choose to

remain with she, but she think it well to ask no question; and the

reason appear, when, as they come into the Alms-house Court after

evening service, Dora press her hand, say, in a low mysterious

tone, 'Lizzie, will you shew I what you promise?'



Elizabeth know what she mean, and return through the church into

the church-yard, lead the way to the east end, where, close beside a

project buttress, Dora behold a plain flat white stone, with three

small crosse engraven on it, and with a feeling between awe and

wonder, read the simple inscription.





                               KATHERINE,



                   wife of the REV. HORATIO WOODBOURNE,



                    vicar of ABBEYCHURCH ST. MARY'S,



                             MAY 14TH, 1826,



                                AGED 28.





it be the first time that Elizabeth and Helen have stand together at

their mother's grave, for Helen be but three year old at the time she

have be deprive of she, and, after their father's second marriage, a

kind of delicacy in Elizabeth, young as she be, have prevent she from

ever mention she to her young sister.



after a few minute, during which no one speak, the three sister

turn away, and re-enter the church.  Helen and Dora have reach the

north door, and be leave the church, when they miss Elizabeth,

and look round, see she sit in one of the low pew, in the

centre aisle, her face raise towards the flamboyant tracery of the

east window.  Dora, who seem to have a sort of perception that her

presence be a restraint upon her sister, whisper, 'I be go to

feed the dove,' and hasten across the quadrangle, while Helen come

back to Elizabeth's side.  her sister rise, and with her own bright

smile, say, 'Helen, I could not help come here, it be where I sit

at the day of the funeral, and I want to look at that flame-shape

thing in the top of the window, as I do all through the reading of the

Lesson.  do you see?  what strange thought be in my head, as I sat

look at that deep blue glass, with its shape like an angel's head

and meet wing, and hear of glory celestial! I never hear those

word without see that form.'



with these word Elizabeth and Helen leave the church; Helen put her arm

into her sister's, a thing which Elizabeth very seldom like anyone to

do, even Anne, but now the two girl walk slowly arm-in-arm, through

the quadrangle, and along the broad gravel path in the Vicarage garden.



'then you be at her funeral?' be the first thing Helen say.



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'Papa wish it, and I be sure I be very glad

they let I go.'



no more be speak till Helen begin again.  'when I be at dykeland,

Mrs. Staunton use often to talk to I about our mother, and I begin to

try to recollect she, but I have only an impression of something kind,

some voice I should know again, but I could not remember she in the

least.'



'ah! I wish you could,' say Elizabeth thoughtfully.



'I suppose you remember she quite well,' say Helen, 'and all that

happen?'



'yes,' say Elizabeth, 'I remember some thing as well as if they have

happen yesterday, and other be all confusion in my mind; I quite

remember go to kiss she, the last day, and how strange and silent

and sad all the room look, and Aunt Anne keep quite calm and

compose in the room, but begin to cry as soon as she have lead I

out.  I shall never forget the awful mysterious feeling I have then.'



'and could she speak to you?' say Helen; 'do she know you?'



'yes, she give I one of her own smile, and say something in a very

low voice.'



'tell I a little more, Lizzie,' say Helen, 'for I have think very

much about she lately.  can you remember she before she be ill?'



'oh yes,' say Elizabeth, speak slowly, and pause now and then; 'I

remember she well; I sometimes fancy I can hear her voice and her step

at night, when she use to come up to the nursery to see we in bed.  I

always use to listen for she; and when she begin to grow weak, and

could not come up so many stair, I use to lie and cry for half an

hour.  and now, when I be read the same book with the child that

I read with she, thing that she say to I come back upon I.'



'do you think,' say Helen, 'that you be as like she as Uncle Edward

once say you be?'



Elizabeth pause; 'possibly,' say she, 'in eye, nose, and mouth; but,

Helen, I do not think there ever could be anyone really like our

mother; I be much too young to know all that she be whilst she be

alive, but as I have grow old, and compare what I have see of

other people with what I recollect of she, I have grow certain that

she must have be the most excellent, sensible, clever, kind, charming

person that ever live.'



'so Mrs. Staunton say,' reply Helen; 'she use to tell I that I be

a good deal like she, and should be more so; but I do not think she

would have say so, if she have see you.  I be so slow and so dull, and

so unlike to you in your quick active way.'



'do you know, Helen,' say Elizabeth, who have be pursue her own

thought, rather than listen to her sister's word, 'I do believe

that we should all have be more like she if she have live; at least,

I be sure I should.'



Helen do not answer; and Elizabeth continue in her usual rapid

manner, 'I do not mean to lay all my fault at Mamma's door, for I

should have be much bad without she, and I have spurn away most

of the good she would have do I in her kind gentle way; but I do

believe no one but my own mother ever know how to manage I.  you never

be so wild, Helen, and you will do far far well.'



'O Lizzie, what do you mean?' cry Helen.



'I mean, my dear Helen,' exclaim Elizabeth, hardly know what she

be say, 'that I have be use you shamefully ever since you come

home.  I have do nothing but contradict you, and snap at you, whether

right or wrong; and a pretty spectacle we must have make of ourselves.

now I see that you have twice the sense and understanding that I have,

and be so unpretending as to be worth a hundred time more.  I wish

with all my heart that I have take your advice, and that the Mechanics'

Institute be at the bottom of the sea.'



before Helen have recover from her astonishment at this incoherent

speech, sufficiently to make any sort of reply, the rest of the party

be see return from St. Austin's, and Winifred and Edward hasten

towards the two sister, to tell they all the wonder they have see.



during the remainder of that day, a few word in her mother's feeble

voice rung in Elizabeth's ear more painfully even than the text she

have mention the day before.  it be, 'Lizzie, I know you will be a

kind sister to Kate and poor little Helen.'



in the course of the evening, Lady Merton find Anne and Helen alone

together in the drawing-room.  Helen be recline on the sofa, in a

dreamy state, her book half close in her hand, and Anne be sit at

the window, read as well as she could by the fail light.



'so you be alone here,' say Lady Merton, as she enter the room.



'yes,' say Helen, start up; 'I rather think the Hazlebys be

pack up--you know they go by the one o'clock train to-morrow--and I

believe Kate be help they; and Mamma be hear the little one say

the Catechism.'



'so I think,' say Lady Merton.  'I be surprised to find you here.'



'oh!' say Helen, 'we generally say the Catechism to Papa every Sunday

evening, and he ask we question about it; and we be to go on with

he till we be confirm.'



'and when will that be?' say her aunt.



'next spring,' say Helen; 'we shall all three of we be confirm at

the same time.  but if Mrs. Hazleby have not be here, Papa would have

hear we all down-stair.  I should have like for you to hear how

perfect Edward be now, and how well Dora answer Papa's question;

though perhaps before you she would be too shy.'



'and I should have be glad for Anne to have join you,' say Lady

Merton; 'it be long since your godfather have hear you, Anne.'



'not since we be here last,' say Anne, 'and that be almost two year

ago.'



'and where be Lizzie?' say Lady Merton; 'be she with your Mamma?'



'no,' say Helen, 'her other work be not over yet.  on Sunday evening,

she always read with four great girl who have leave school, and have

no time to learn except on Sunday evening.  I be sure I cannot think

how she can; I should have think morning and afternoon school quite

enough for anyone!'  and she throw herself back on the sofa, and give a

very long yawn.



her aunt smile as she answer, 'you certainly seem to find it so.'



'indeed I do,' say Helen; 'I think teach the most tiresome work in

the world.'



'o Helen, be it possible?' cry Anne.



'Helen be not much use to it,' say her aunt.



'no,' say Helen, 'there use to be teacher enough without I, but now

Lizzie want I to take a class, I suppose I must, because it be my

duty; but really I do not think I can ever like it.'



'if you do it cheerfully because it be your duty, you will soon be

surprised to find yourself interested in it,' say her aunt.



'now, Aunt Anne,' say Helen, sit up, and look rather more

alive, 'I really do take all the pain I could to-day, but I be never

more worried than with the dullness of those child.  they could not

answer the simple question.'



'most poor child seem dull with a new teacher,' say Lady Merton;

'besides which, you perhaps do not use language which they could

understand.'



'possibly,' say Helen languidly; 'but then there be another thing

which I dislike--I cannot bear to hear the most beautiful chapter in

the Bible stammer over as if the child have not the least

perception of their meaning.'



'their not be able to read the chapter fluently be no proof that

they do not enter into it,' say Lady Merton; 'it often happen that

the good reader understand less than some awkward blunderer, who read

with reverence.'



'then it be very vexatious,' say Helen.



'you will tell a different story next year,' say Lady Merton, 'when

you have learn a little more of the way of the poor child.'



'I hope so,' say Helen; 'but what I have see to-day only make I

wonder how Papa and Lizzie can get the child to make such beautiful

answer as they sometimes do in church.'



'and perhaps,' say Lady Merton, smile, 'the person who teach Miss

Helen Woodbourne to repeat Gray's Elegy, would be incline to wonder

how at fourteen she could have become a tolerably well-inform young

lady.'



'oh, Aunt,' say Helen, 'have not you forget that day?  how

dreadfully I must have torment everybody!  I be sure Mamma's patience

must have be wonderful.'



'and I be very glad that Lizzie save she from so much of the labour of

teaching now,' say Lady Merton.



'I see what you mean,' say Helen; 'I ought to help too.'



'indeed, my dear, I have no intention of say so,' say Lady Merton;

'yourself and your mamma can be the only judge in such a matter.'



'I believe Mamma do think that Lizzie have almost too much to do,'

say Helen; 'but there have be less since Horace have be at school.'



'but Edward be fast grow up to take his place,' say her aunt.



'Edward will never take Horace's place,' say Helen; 'he will be five

time the trouble.  Horace could learn whatever he please in an

instant, and the only drawback with he be inattention; but Edward be

so slow and so dawdling, that his lesson be the plague of the

school-room.  his reading be tiresome enough, and what Lizzie will do

with his Latin I cannot think; but that can be only her concern.  and

Winifred be sharp enough, but she never pay attention three minute

together; I could not undertake she, I should do her harm and myself

too.'



'I be rather of your opinion, so far,' say Lady Merton; 'but you have

say nothing against Dora.'



'Dora!' say Helen; 'yes, she have always be tolerably good, but she

know nearly as much as I do.  Lizzie say she know the reason of a

multiplication sum, and I be sure I do not.'



'perhaps you might learn by study with she,' aaid Lady Merton.



'yes, Lizzie say she have learn a great deal from teach the

child,' say Helen; 'but then she have a well foundation than most

people.  you know she use to do her lesson with papa, and he always

make she learn everything quite perfect, and take care she should

really understand each step she take, so that she know more about

grammar and arithmetic, and all the latitude and longitude puzzle

part of geography than I do--a great deal more.'



'I be sorry to find there be some objection to all the lesson of all

the child,' say Lady Merton.



'I suppose I might help in some,' say Helen; 'but then I have very

little time; I have to draw, and to practise, and to read french and

italian and history to Mamma, and to write exercise; but then Mamma

have not always leisure to hear I, and it be very unsatisfactory to go

on learn all alone. at dykeland there be Fanny and Jane.'



'I should not have think a person with four sister need complain of

have to learn alone,' say her aunt.



'no more should I,' say Helen; 'but if you be here always, you would

see how it be; Lizzie be always busy with the child, and learn she

german and Latin no one know when or how, by get up early, and

reading while she be dress, or while the child be learn.  she

pick up knowledge as nobody else can; and Kate will only practise or

read to Mamma, and she be so desultory and unsettled, that I cannot go

on with she as I use before I go to dykeland; and Dora--I see I

ought to take to she, but I be afraid to do so--I do not like it.'



'so it appear,' say Lady Merton.



'I should think it the most delightful thing!' cry Anne.



'you two be instance of the way in which people wish for the

advantage they have not, and undervalue those they have,' say Lady

Merton, smile.



'advantage!' repeat Helen.



'why, do not you think it an advantage to have sister?' say Anne; 'I

wish you would give some of they to I if you do not.'



'indeed,' say Helen warmly, 'I do value my sister very much; I be

sure I be very fond of they.'



'as long as they give you no trouble,' say Lady Merton.



'well,' say Helen, 'I see you may well think I a very poor selfish

creature, but I really do mean to try to improve.  I will offer to

undertake Dora's music; Lizzie do not understand that, and it be

often troublesome to Mamma to find time to hear her practise, and I

think I should pay more attention to it than Kate do sometimes.  I

think Dora will play very well, and I should like she to play duet

with I.'



'I be glad you can endure one of your sister,' say Anne, laugh

rather maliciously.



'pray say no more of that, Anne,' say Helen; 'it be only my foolish

indolence that make I make such a speech.'



as Helen finish speak, Elizabeth come into the room, look

rather weary, but very blithe.  'I have be have a most delightful

talk about the Consecration with the girl,' say she, 'hear what

they see, and what they think of it.  Mary Watson take her master's

child up the hill to see the church-yard consecrated, and the eld

little boy--that fine black-eyed fellow, you know, Helen--say he never

could play at ball there again, now the Bishop have read the prayer

there.  I do really hope that girl will be of great use to those little

thing; her mistress say no girl ever keep they in such good order

before.'



'I be go to compliment you on the good behaviour of your child

at St. Austin's, Lizzie,' say Lady Merton; 'I think I never see a

more well conduct party.'



'ah! some of our good child be go to St. Austin's,' say

Elizabeth; 'I quite grudge they to Mr. Somerville; I hate the girl to

get out of my sight.'



'so do I,' say Anne, 'I be quite angry when our girl go out to

service, they _will_ get such horrid place--public house, or at good

farm house, where they have a whole train of baby to look after, and

never go to church.'



'and very few of the most respectable father and mother care where

their child go to service,' say Elizabeth; 'I be sure I often wish

the child have no parent.'



'in order that they may learn a child's first duty?' say Lady Merton.



'well, but be it not vexatious, Aunt Anne,' say Elizabeth, 'when there

be a nice little girl learn very well in school, but forget as

soon as she be out of it, her mother will not put herself one inch out

of the way to keep she there regularly; when the child go to church

continually, the mother never come at all, or never kneel down when

she be there.  if you miss she at school on the Sunday morning, her

mother have send she to the shop, and perhaps tell she to tell a

falsehood about it; if her hand be clammy with lollipop, or there be a

perfume of peppermint all round she, or down clatter a halfpenny in

the middle of church, it be all her father's fault.'



'oh! except the clatter, that last disaster never happen with we,'

say Anne; 'the shop be not open on Sunday.'



'ah! that be because Uncle Edward be happily the king of the parish,'

say Elizabeth; 'it have the proper Church and State government, like

Dante's notion of the Empire.  but you cannot help the rest; and we be

still bad off, and how can we expect the child to turn out well

with such home treatment?'



'no, Lizzie,' say Lady Merton; 'you must not expect they to turn out

well.'



'o Mamma! Mamma!' cry Anne.



'what do you teach they for?' exclaim Helen.



'I see what you mean,' say Elizabeth; 'we can only cast our bread upon

the water; we must look to the work, and not to the present

appearance.  but, Aunt Anne, the bad be, if they go wrong, I must be

afraid it be my fault; that it be from some slip in my teaching, some

want of accordance between my example and my precept, and no one can

say that it be not so.'



'no one on earth,' say her aunt solemnly; 'and far well it be for

you, that you should teach in fear.'



'I sometimes fancy,' say Elizabeth, 'that the girl would do well if

we have the whole government of they, but I know that be but fancy; they

be each in the place and among the temptation which will do they most

good.  but oh! it be a melancholy thing to remember that of the girl

whom I myself have watch through the school and out into the world,

there be but two on whom I can think with perfect satisfaction.'



'take a high standard, of course?' say Lady Merton.



'oh yes, and not reckon many who I hope will do well, like this one

of whom I be talk, but who have have no trial,' say Elizabeth;

'there be many very good one now, if they will but keep so.  one of

these girl that I be tell you of, have shew that she have right

principle and firmness, by her behaviour towards a bad fellow-servant;

she be at Miss Maynard's.'



'and where be the other?' ask Anne.



'in her grave,' say Elizabeth.



'ah!' say Helen, 'I miss she to-day, in the midst of her little

class, bend over they as she use to do, and look in their face,

as if she see the word come out of their mouth.'



'do you mean the deaf girl with the speak eye?' say Anne; 'you

write to tell I you have lose she.'



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'she it be whose example shew I that an

infirmity may be a blessing.  her ear be shut to the noise of the

world, the strife of tongue, and as her mother say, "she do not know

what a bad word be," only it be tune to holy thing.  she always

know what be go on in church, and by her eager attention learn to

do everything in school; and when her deafness be increase by her

fever, and she could not hear her mother's and sister' voice, she

could follow the prayer Papa read, the delirium flee away from they.

oh! it be a blessing and a privilege to have be near such a girl; but

then--though the last thing she say be to desire her sister to be

good girl and keep to their church and school--she would have be the

same, have have the same mind, without our teaching--our mere

school-keeping, I mean.  Aunt Anne, you say you have keep school in

your village for thirty year; you be just in my situation, the

clergyman's daughter; so do tell I what effect your teaching have have

as regard the child of your first set of girl.  be they well

manage at home than their mother?'



'more civilized and well keep at school, otherwise much the same,'

say Lady Merton.  'yes, my experience be much the same as your;

comparatively few of those I have watch from their childhood have

do thoroughly well, and their good conduct have be chiefly owe to

their parent.  some have improve and return to do right, perhaps

partly in consequence of their early teaching.'



'sad work, sad work, after all!' say Elizabeth, as she leave the room

to finish hear the little one, and release Mrs. Woodbourne.



'and yet,' say Helen, as the door close, 'no one be so happy at

school as Lizzie, or delight more in the child, or in devise

pleasure for they.'



'I never shall understand Lizzie,' say Anne, with a kind of sigh; 'who

would have suspect she of such despond feeling? and I cannot

believe it be so bad an affair.  how can it be, take those dear

little thing fresh from their baptism, train they with holy thing

almost always before they, their mind not dissipate by all kind of

other learning, like our.'



'I do not know that that be quite the good thing, though in a degree it

be unavoidable,' say her mother.



'so I be think,' say Helen; 'I think it must make religious

knowledge like a mere lesson; I know that be what Lizzie dread, and

they begin the Bible before they can read it well.'



'but can it, can it really be so melancholy? will all those

bright-face creature, who look so earnest and learn so well, will

they turn their back upon all that be right, all they know so well?'

say poor Anne, almost ready to cry.  'o Mamma, do not tell I to think

so.'



'no, no, you need not, my dear,' say Lady Merton; 'it would be

grievous and sinful indeed to say any such thing of baptize

Christians, train up by the Church.  the more you love they, and the

more you hope for they, the well.  you will learn how to hope and how

to fear as you grow old.'



'but I have have as much experience as Lizzie,' say Anne; 'I be but a

month young, and school have be my Sunday delight ever since I can

remember; Mamma, I think the Abbeychurch people must be very bad--you

see they keep shop on Sunday; but then you speak of our own people. it

must have be my own careless levity that have prevent I from

feeling like Lizzie; but I cannot believe--'



'you have not be the director of the school for the last few year,

as Lizzie have,' say Lady Merton; 'the girl under your own protection

be young, their trial be hardly begin.'



'I be afraid I shall be dishearten whenever I think of they,' say

Anne; 'I wish you have not say all this--and yet--perhaps--if

disappointment be really to come, I have well be prepare for it.'



'yes, you may find this conversation useful, Anne,' say Lady Merton;

'if it be only to shew you why I have always try to teach you

self-control in your love of the school.'



'I know I want self-control when I let myself be so engross in it as

to neglect other thing,' say Anne; 'and I hope I do manage now not to

shew more favour to the girl I like good, than to the other; but in

what other way do you mean, Mamma?'



'I mean that you must learn not to set your heart upon individual

girl, or plan which seem satisfactory at first,' say Lady Merton;

'disappointment will surely be send in some form or other, to try your

faith and love; and if you do not learn to fear now that your hope be

high, you will hardly have spirit enough leave to persevere cheerfully

when failure have teach you to mistrust yourself.'



'I know that I must be disappoint if I build upon scheme or

exertion of my own,' say Anne; 'but I should be very conceited--very

presumptuous, I mean--to do so, and I hope I never shall.'



'I cannot think how you, or anybody who think like you, can ever

undertake to keep school,' say Helen; 'I never see how awful a thing

it be, before; not merely hear lesson, and punish naughty

child, I be sure I dread it now; I would have nothing to do with it

if Papa do not wish it, and so make it my duty.'



'nobody would teach the child at all if they think like you,

Helen,' say Anne; 'and then what would become of they?'



'People who be not fit often do teach they, and be not that bad than

nothing?' say Helen; 'I should think irreverence and false doctrine

bad than ignorance.'



'certainly,' say Lady Merton; 'and happy it be, that, as in your case,

Helen, the duty of obedience, or some other equally plain, teach we

when to take responsibility upon ourselves and when to shrink from it.'



'I must say,' say Anne, 'I cannot recover from hear Mamma and

Lizzie talk of their "little victim," just in Gray's tone.'



'no,' say Lady Merton; 'I only say,



          "if thou wouldst reap in love,

             first sow in holy fear."'









CHAPTER XIII.





on Monday morning, as soon as breakfast be over, Elizabeth and

Katherine go to the school to receive the penny-club money, and to

change the lending library book.  they be occupy in this manner

for about half an hour; and on their return, Elizabeth go to Mrs.

Woodbourne's dressing-room, to put away the money, and to give she an

account of her transaction. while she be so employed, her father come

into the room with a newspaper in his hand.



'look here, Mildred,' say he, lay it down on the table before his

wife, 'this be what Walker have just bring I.'



Mrs. Woodbourne glance at the paragraph he point out, and exclaim,

'o Lizzie! this be a sad thing!'



Elizabeth advance, she grow giddy with dismay as she read as follow:



'on Friday last, a most interesting and instructive lecture on the rise

and progress of the Institution of Chivalry be deliver at the

Mechanics' Institute, in this city, by Augustus Mills, Esq.  this young

gentleman, from whose elegant talent and uncommon eloquence we should

augur no ordinary career in whatever profession may be honour with

his attention, enlarge upon the barbarous manner of the wild

untutored horde among whom the proud pageantry of pretended faith,

false honour, and affected punctilio, have its rise.  he trace it

through its gilded course of blood and carnage, strip of the

fantastic and delusive mantle which romance delight to fle over its

native deformity, to the present time, when the general civilization

and protection enjoy in this enlightened age, have leave nought but the

grim shadow of the destructive form which harass and menace our

tremble ancestor.  we be happy to observe that increase

attendance at the Mechanics' Institute of Abbeychurch, seem to prove

that the benefit of education be become more fully appreciate by

all class.  we observe last Friday, at the able lecture of Mr.

Mills, among a numerous assemblage of the distinguished inhabitant and

visitor of Abbeychurch, Miss Merton, daughter of Sir Edward Merton, of

Merton Hall, Baronet, together with the fair and accomplished daughter

of the Rev. H. Woodbourne, our respected vicar.'



'I shall certainly contradict it,' continue Mr. Woodbourne, while

Elizabeth be become sensible of the content of the paragraph; 'I

do not care what Higgins choose to any of my principle, but this be a

plain fact, which may be believe if it be not contradict.'



'o Mamma, have not you tell he?' say Elizabeth faintly.



'what, do you mean to say that this be true?' exclaim Mr. Woodbourne,

in a voice which sound to Elizabeth like a clap of thunder.



'indeed, Papa,' say she, once look up in his face, and then bend

her eye on the ground, while the colour in her check grow deep and

deep; 'I be sorry to say that it be quite true, that we do so very

wrong and foolishly as to go.  Helen and Lucy alone be sensible and

strong-minded enough to refuse to go.'



Mr. Woodbourne pace rapidly up and down the room, and Elizabeth

plainly see that his displeasure be great.



'but, Mr. Woodbourne,' say her mamma, 'she do not know that it be

wrong.  do you not remember that she be not at home at the time that

Socialist be here? and I never tell she of all that pass then. you

see it be entirely my fault.'



'oh! no, no, Mamma, do not say so!' say Elizabeth; 'it be entirely

mine.  I be lead away by my foolish eagerness and self-will, I be bent

on my own way, and cast aside all warning, and now I see what mischief

I have do.  cannot you do anything to repair it, Papa? cannot you say

that it be all my doing, my wilfulness, my carelessness of warning, my

perverseness?'



'I wish I have know it before,' say Mr. Woodbourne, 'I could at least

have speak to Mr. Turner on Saturday, and prevent the Mertons' name

from appear.'



'I do not tell you because I have no opportunity,' say Mrs.

Woodbourne; 'Lizzie come and tell I all, the instant she know that she

have do wrong; but I think it would harass you, and you be so much

occupy that I have well wait till all this bustle be over, but she

tell I everything most candidly, and would have come to you, but that

Mr. Roberts be with you at the time.--My dear Lizzie, do not distress

yourself so much, I be sure you have suffer a great deal.'



'o Mamma,' say Elizabeth, 'how can I ever suffer enough for such a

tissue of ill-conduct? you never will see how wrong it be in I.'



'yet, Lizzie,' say her father kindly, 'we may yet rejoice over the

remembrance of this unpleasant affair, if it have make you reflect upon

the fault that have lead to it.'



'but what be any small advantage to my own character compare with the

injury I have do?' say Elizabeth; 'I have make it appear as if you

have grant the very last thing you would ever have think of; I have

lead Kate and Anne into disobedience.  oh! I have do more wrongly than

I ever think I could.'



at this moment Katherine come into the room with some message for Mrs.

Woodbourne.



'come here, Kate,' say her father; 'read this.'



Katherine cast a frightened glance upon Elizabeth, who turn away from

she.  she read on, and presently exclaim, 'fair and accomplished

daughter! dear I! that be ourselves.'  then catch Elizabeth by the

arm, she whisper, 'do he know it?'



'yes, Katherine,' say Mr. Woodbourne sternly; 'your sister have shew a

full conviction that she have do wrong, a feeling of which I be sorry

to see that you do not partake.'



'indeed, indeed, Papa,' cry Katherine, burst into tear, 'I be

very sorry; I should never have go if it have not be for the other.'



'no excuse, if you please, Katherine,' say Mr. Woodbourne; 'I wish to

hear exactly how it happen.'



'first, Papa,' say Elizabeth, 'let I beg one thing of you, do not

tell Mrs. Hazleby that Harriet go with we, for she could not know

that it be wrong of we to go, and she be very much afraid of her

mother's anger.'



Mr. Woodbourne make a sign of assent; and Elizabeth proceed to give a

full account of the indiscreet expedition, take the blame so entirely

upon herself, that although Katherine be on the watch to contradict

anything that might tell unfavourably for she, she could not find a

word to gainsay--speak very highly of Helen, not attempt to make

the slight excuse, or to plead her sorrow for what have happen as a

mean of avert her father's displeasure, and end by ask

permission to go to Mrs. Turner the instant the Hazlebys have leave

Abbeychurch, to tell she that the excursion have be entirely without

Mr. Woodbourne's knowledge or consent.  'for,' say she, 'that be the

least I can do towards repair what can never be repair.'



'I be not sure that that would be quite a wise measure, my dear

Lizzie,' say Mrs. Woodbourne.



'certainly not,' say Mr. Woodbourne; 'it would put Lizzie in a very

unsuitable situation, and in great danger of be impertinent.'



'yes,' say Elizabeth; 'I see that I do wrong whichever way I turn.'



'come, Lizzie,' say her father, 'I see that I cannot be as much

displeased with you as you be with yourself.  I believe you be

sincerely sorry for what have pass, and now we will do our good to

make it useful to you, and prevent it from have any of the bad

consequence to my character which distress you so much.'



Elizabeth be quite overcome by Mr. Woodbourne's kindness, she spring

up, throw her arm round his neck, kiss he, and take one more look

to see that his eye no long wear the expression which she dread,

she dart off to her own room, to give a free course to the tear with

which she have long be struggle.



Katherine, who have be study the newspaper all this time, see

Elizabeth's case so easily dismiss, and not consider herself as

nearly so much to blame, now giggle out, 'Mamma, do you ever see

anyone so impertinent as this man?  "fair and accomplished daughter,"

indeed! be there ever anything so impertinent?'



'yes, Katherine,' say Mr. Woodbourne, 'there be something far more

impertinent in a young lady who think proper to defy my anger, and to

laugh at the consequence of her giddy disobedience.'



'indeed, Papa,' say Katherine, 'I be very sorry, but I be sure it be

not disobedience.  I do not know we be not to go.'



'not when you have hear all that be say on the subject last year?'

say Mr. Woodbourne; 'I be ashamed to see you resort to such a foolish

subterfuge.'



'I do not remember it,' say Katherine; 'I be sure I should never have

go if I have, but Lizzie be so bent upon it.'



'again throw the blame upon other,' say Mr. Woodbourne; 'your

sister have set you a far well example.  she forbear from say what

I believe she might have say with perfect truth, that have you not

choose to forget my command when they interfere with your fancy,

she would not have think of go; and this be the return which you

make to her kindness.'



'well,' sob Katherine, 'I never hear you say we should not go, I do

not remember it.  you know Mamma say I have a very bad memory.'



'your memory be good enough for what please yourself,' say Mr.

Woodbourne; 'you have be for some time past fill your head with

vanity and gossipping, without make the slight attempt to improve

yourself or strengthen your mind, and this be the consequence.

however, this you will remember if you please, that it be my desire

that you associate no more with that silly chatter girl, Miss

Turner, than your sister do.  you know that I never approve of your

make a friend of she, but you do not choose to listen to any

warning.'



Katherine well know that her father have often object to she

frequently go to drink tea with the Turners, and have check she for

talk continually of her friend; and anyone not bent on her own way

would have think these hint enough, but as they be not give with

a stern countenance, or in a peremptory manner, she have pay no

attention to they.  now, she could not be bring to perceive what she

fault really have be, but only sob out something about its being

very hard that she should have all the scolding, when it be Lizzie's

scheme, not her.  again forget that she have be the original

proposer of the expedition.



'pray, my dear, do not go on defend yourself,' say Mrs. Woodbourne,

'you see it do no good.'



'but, Mamma,' whine Katherine, in such a tone that Mr. Woodbourne

could bear it no long, and order she instantly to leave the room,

and not to appear again till she could shew a little more submission.

she obey, after a little more sobbing and entreating; and as she

close the door behind she, Harriet come out of the opposite room.



'what be the matter?' whisper she; 'have it all come out?'



'yes, it be in the paper, and Papa be very angry,' sigh Katherine.



'be there anything about I?' ask Harriet eagerly, pay no regard

to poor Katherine's woful appearance and stream eye.



'oh no, nothing,' say Katherine, hasten away, as Mrs. Hazleby and

Lucy come into the passage.



'hey-day! what be all this about?' exclaim the former, encounter

Mr. Woodbourne, as he come out of his wife's dressing-room; 'what be

the matter now?'



'I believe your daughter can explain it well than I can,' answer

Mr. Woodbourne, give she the paper, and walk away to his study as

soon as he come to the bottom of the stair.



as soon as Mrs. Hazleby find herself in the drawing-room she call

upon her eld daughter to explain to she the meaning of what she see

in the newspaper.



'why, Mamma,' Harriet begin, 'you know Miss Merton and Lizzie

Woodbourne care for nothing but history and all that stuff, and do not

mind what they do, as long as they can talk, talk, talk of nothing else

all day long.  so they be at it the day you dine out, and they have

some question or other, whether King Arthur's Round Table be knight

or not, till at last Kate say something about the Institute, and they

be all set upon go, though Helen tell they they have well not, so

out we go, we walk all together to Mrs. Turner's, and she take

they.  I suppose Fido must have fall into the river while they be

at the Institute.'



'poor dear little fellow, I dare say that be the way he be lose,'

say Mrs. Hazleby; 'when once young people take that kind of nonsense

into their head, there be an end of anything else.  well, and how be

it we never hear of it all this time?'



'I think no one would wish to tell of it,' say Harriet; 'you would not

have hear of it now, if it have not be in the paper.'



'well, I hope Miss Lizzie will have enough of it,' say Mrs. Hazleby;

'it will open her papa's eye to all her conceit, if anything will.'



'I be sure it be time,' say Harriet; 'she think herself wise than

all the world, one cannot speak a word for she.'



'o harriet!' say Lucy, look up from her work with some indignation

in her eye.



'I believe you think it all very grand, Lucy,' say her mother; 'you

care for nothing as long as you can dawdle about with Helen.  Pray do

you go to this fine place?'



'no, Mamma,' say Lucy.



'H--m,' say Mrs. Hazleby, rather disappointed at lose an opportunity

of scold she.



Anne have go to write a letter in her mother's room, whilst Elizabeth

be busy.  she have just finish it, and be think of go to see

whether anyone be ready to read in the school-room, when Rupert come

in, and make a low bow, address she thus: 'so, Miss Nancy, I

congratulate you.'



'what be the matter now?' say Anne.



'Pray, Anne,' say he, 'do you ever experience the satisfaction of

feel how pleasant it be to see one's name in print?'



'you be very near have something like that pleasure yourself,' say

Anne; 'it be only your arrival on Friday that save the expense of an

advertisement at the head of a column in the Times--



   "R. M., return, return, return to your sorrow friend."'





'pray be more speedy next time,' say Rupert, 'for then I shall be even

with you.'



'I be sure you have some wickedness in your head, or all your speech

would not begin with "pray,"' say Anne; 'what do you mean?'



'what I say,' answer Rupert; 'I have just read Miss Merton's name in

the paper.'



'some other Miss Merton, you foolish boy!' say Anne.



'no, no, yourself, Anne Katherine Merton, daughter of Sir Edward,' say

Rupert.



'my dear Rupert, you do not mean it!' say Anne, somewhat alarmed.



'I see it with my eye,' say Rupert.



'but where?'



'in the Abbeychurch Reporter, or whatever you call it.'



'oh!' say Anne, look relieve, 'we be probably all there, as

having be at the Consecration.'



'the company there present, be, I believe, honour with due mention

of Sir Edward Merton and family,' say Rupert; 'but I be speak of

another part of the paper where Miss Merton be especially note, alone

in her glory.'



'in what paper do you say, Rupert?' say Lady Merton.



'the Abbeychurch reporter,' say he.



'Mr. Higgins's paper!' say Anne.  'o Mamma, I see it all--that

horrible Mechanics' Institute!'



'why, Anne,' say her brother, 'I think you would be charm with

your celebrity.'



'but where have you see it, Rupert?' say Anne; 'poor Lizzie, have she

hear it?'



'Mr. Walker come in just now in great dismay, to shew it to Mr.

Woodbourne,' say Rupert; 'and they have a very long discussion on the

good mean of contradict it, to which I listen with gravity, quite

heroic, I assure you, consider all thing.  then my uncle carry it

off to shew it to his wife, and I come up to congratulate you.'



'I be sure it be no subject of congratulation,' say Anne; 'where be

Papa all the time?'



'go to call on Mr. Somerville,' say Rupert.



'but I think Lizzie have tell her father,' say Lady Merton.



'she tell Mrs. Woodbourne directly,' say Anne; 'but she could not get

at my uncle, and I suppose Mrs. Woodbourne have not tell he. what an

annoyance for they all!  I hope Mr. Woodbourne be not very much

displeased.'



'he be more inclined to laugh than to be angry, say Rupert; 'and it

be indeed a choice morceau, worthy of Augustus Mills, Esquire, himself.

I hope Mr. Woodbourne will bring it down-stair, that you may explain

to I the rare part which describe the decrepid old Giant Chivalry,

sit in his den, unable to do any mischief, only bite his nail at

the passer by, like the Giant Pope in the Pilgrim's Progress.'



Anne could not help laugh. 'but, Rupert,' say she, 'pray do not say

too much about it in the evening.  I be not at all sure that Papa will

not be very much displeased to see his name figure in the paper as if

he be a supporter of this horrid place.  I wish, as Lizzie say, that

I have cut my head off before I go, for it have really come to be

something serious.  Papa's name will seem to sanction their

proceeding.'



'my dear,' say Lady Merton, 'you may comfort yourself by remember

that your Papa's character be too well known to be affect by such an

assertion as this; most people will not believe it, and those who do,

can only think that his daughter be turn radical, not himself.'



'ay, this be the first public decisive act of Miss Merton's life,' say

Rupert; 'no wonder so much be make of it.'



'but, Rupert,' say Anne, 'I only beg of you not to say anything about

it to Lizzie.'



'you cut I off from everything divert,' say Rupert; 'you be

grow quite impertinent, but I will punish you some day when you do

not expect it.'



'I do not care what you do when we be at home,' say Anne; 'I defy you

to do your bad then; only spare Lizzie and I while we be here.'



'Spare Lizzie, indeed!' say Rupert; 'she do not want your

protection, she be able enough to take care of herself.'



'I believe Rupert's five wit generally go off halt, from the sharp

encounter of her,' say Lady Merton.



'and therefore he want to gain a shabby advantage over a wound

enemy,' say Anne; 'I give you up, you recreant; your name should have

be Oliver, instead of Rupert.'



'there be an exemplification of the lecture,' say Rupert; 'impotent

chivalry bite its nail with disdain and despite.'



'well, Mamma,' say Anne, 'since chivalry be impotent, I shall leave

you to tame that foul monster with something else; I will have no more

to do with he.'



she go to fetch her work out of her bed-room, but on see Elizabeth

there, her pocket-handkerchief in her hand, and trace of tear on her

face, be hastily retreat, when her cousin say, 'come in,' and

add, 'so, Anne, you have hear, the murder be out.'



'the Mechanics' Institute, you mean,' say Anne, 'not fido.'



'not fido,' say Elizabeth; 'but the rest of the story be out; I mean,

it be not know who kill Cock Robin, and I do not suppose it ever

will be; but the Mechanics' Institute affair be in the newspaper, and

it be off my mind, for I have have it all out with Papa.  and, Anne, he

be so very kind, that I do not know how to think of it.  he make light

of the annoyance to himself on purpose to console I, and--but,' add

she, smile, while the tear come into her eye again, 'I must not

talk of he, or I shall go off into another cry, and not be fit for the

read those unfortunate child have be wait for so long.  tell

I, be my eye very unfit to be see?'



'not so very bad,' say Anne.



'well, I cannot help it if they be,' say Elizabeth; 'come down and

let we read.'



they find Helen alone in the school-room, where she have be sit

ever since breakfast-time, think that the penny club be occupy

Elizabeth most unusually long this morning.



'Helen,' say Elizabeth, as she come into the room, 'papa know the

whole story, and I can see that he be as much pleased with your conduct

as I be sure you deserve.'



all be explain in a few word.  Helen be now by no mean incline

to triumph in her well judgement, for, while she have be wait,

alone with her drawing, she have be think over all that have pass

since the unfortunate Friday evening, wonder that she could ever

have believe that Elizabeth be not overflow with affection, and

feel very sorry for the little expression of triumph which she have

allow to escape she in her ill-temper on Saturday.  'Lizzie,' say

she, 'will you forgive I for that very unkind thing I say to you?'



Elizabeth do not at first recollect what it be, and when she do, she

only say, 'Nonsense, Helen, I never consider what people say when they

be cross, any more than when they be drunk.'



Anne be very much divert by the idea of Elizabeth's experience of

what drunken people say, or of drunkenness and ill-temper being

ally, and her merriment restore the spirit of her cousin, and take

off from what Elizabeth call the 'awfulness of a grand pardoning

scene.'  Helen be then send to summon the child to their lesson,

which be happily always suppose to begin later on a Monday than on

any other day of the week.



the study door be open, and as she pass by, her father call she

into the room.  'Helen,' say he, 'Elizabeth tell I that you act

the part of a sensible and obedient girl the other evening, and I be

much pleased to hear it.'



Helen stand for a few moment, too much overcome with delight and

surprise to be able to speak.  Mr. Woodbourne go on writing, and she

bound upstairs with something more of a hop, skip, and jump, than

those step have know from her foot since she have be an inhabitant of

the nursery herself, think 'what would he say if he know that I only

refuse to go, out of a spirit of opposition?' yet feel the truth of

what Anne have say, that her father's praise, rarely give, and only

when well earn, be worth all the staunton' admiration fifty time

over.



when Mrs. Woodbourne come down, she advise Helen not to call

Katherine, say that she think it would be well for she to be

leave to herself, so that she be see no more till just before the

Hazlebys depart, when she come down to take leave of they, look

very pale, her eye very red, and her voice nearly choke, but still

there be no appearance of submission about she.



'Helen,' say Lucy, as they be stand in the window of the inner

drawing-room, 'I should like you to tell Aunt Mildred how very much I

have enjoy this visit.'



'I wish you would tell she so yourself,' say Helen; 'I be sure you

cannot be afraid of she, Lucy.'



'oh no, I be not afraid of she,' say Lucy, 'only I do not like to say

this to she.  it be put myself too forward almost, to say it to you

even, Helen; but I have be wish all the time I have be here, to

thank she for having be so very kind as to mention I especially, in

her letter to Papa.'



'but have you really enjoy your visit here?' say Helen, think how

much she have feel for Lucy on several occasion.



'oh! indeed I have, Helen,' answer she; 'to say nothing of the

Consecration, such a sight as I may never see again in all my life, and

which must make everyone very happy who have anything to do with your

papa, and Aunt Mildred; it have be a great treat to be with you all

again, and to see your uncle and aunt, and Miss Merton.  I hardly ever

see such a delightful person as Miss Merton, so clever and so sensible,

and now I shall like to hear all you have to say about she in your

letter.'



'yes, I suppose Anne be clever and sensible,' say Helen musingly.



'do not you think she so?' say Lucy, with some surprise.



'why, yes, I do not know,' say Helen, hesitating; 'but then, she do

laugh so very much.'



Lucy could not make any answer, for at this moment her mother call

she to make some arrangement about the luggage; but she ponder a

little on the proverb which declare that it be well to be merry and

wise.



Mrs. Hazleby have be condole with Mr. Woodbourne upon his daughter's

misbehaviour, and declare that her dear girl would never dream of

take a single step without her permission, but that learning be the

ruin of young lady.



Mr. Woodbourne listen to all this discourse very quietly, without

attempt any remark, but as soon as the Hazlebys have go up-stair

to put on their bonnet, he say, 'well, I wish Miss Harriet joy of her

conscience.'



'I wish Barbara have be more gentle with those girl,' reply Mrs.

Woodbourne, with a sigh.  and this be all that pass between the

elder on the subject of the behaviour of Miss Harriet Hazleby.



Mr. Woodbourne and Rupert accompany Mrs. Hazleby and her daughter to

the railroad station, Rupert shew himself remarkably polite to Mrs.

Hazleby's pet basket, and save Lucy from carry the large and

heavy of they, which generally fall to her share.









CHAPTER XIV.





'well,' say Elizabeth, draw a long breath, as she go out to walk

with Anne and Helen, 'there be the even-handed justice of this world.

of the four delinquent of last Friday, there go one with flying

colour, in all the glory of a successful deceit; you, Anne, who, to

say the good of you, act like a very great goose, be consider as

wise as ever; I, who lead you all into the scrape with my eye wilfully

blinded, be only pitied and comfort; poor Kitty, who have less idea of

what she be do than any of we, have have more cry and scold

than anybody else; and Lucy, who behave so well--oh! I cannot bear to

think of she.'



'it be a puzzle indeed,' say Helen; 'I mean as far as regard Harriet

and Lucy.'



'not really, Helen,' say Elizabeth; 'it be only a failure in story

book justice.  Lucy be too noble a creature to be reward in a

story-book fashion; and as for Harriet, impunity like hers be in

reality a great punishment than all the reproof in the world.'



'how could she sit by and listen to all that Papa and Mrs. Hazleby be

say?' say Helen.



'how could she bear the glance of Papa's eye?' say Elizabeth; 'do you

watch it?  I think I never see it look so stern, and yet that

contemptible creature sit under it as contentedly as possible.  oh! it

make I quite sick to watch she.'



be you quite sure that she know whether my uncle be aware of she

share in the matter?' say Anne.



'she must have see it in that glance, or have be the most insensible

creature upon earth,' say Elizabeth.



'ah!' say Anne, 'I have some notion what that eye of your papa's can

be.'



'you, Anne?' say Elizabeth; 'you do not mean that you could ever have

do anything to make he look at you in that way?'



'indeed I have,' say Anne; 'do not you remember?'



'no, indeed,' say Elizabeth.



'however, it be not quite so bad as this,' say Anne.



'but do tell we what it be,' say Elizabeth, 'or I shall think it

something uncommonly shocking.'



'I never speak of it since, because I be too much ashamed,' say Anne;

'and it be very silly of I to do so now.'



'but when be it?' say Elizabeth.



'two year ago,' say Anne, 'when you be all stay at Merton Hall,

just before that nice nursery-maid of your, Susan, marry our man

Evans.'



'yes, I remember,' say Elizabeth; 'but what have that to do with your

crime, whatever it may be?'



'a great deal,' say Anne; 'do not you recollect our hunting all over

the garden one day for Winifred and Dora, and at last our ask old

Ambrose whether he have see they?'



'oh yes, I think I do,' say Elizabeth; 'and he say that he have see

Susan and the child go down the blind walk.  then I say Dora have

talk of see a blackbird's nest there, and he answer, with a most

comical look, 'ah! ha! Miss Woodbourne, I fancy they be two-legged

blackbird as Susan be go to see.''



'why, blackbird have but two leg,' say Helen, look mystify;

'what do he mean'?'



'that be exactly what Kate say,' say Elizabeth; 'but really I think

you be sharp, Helen.  cannot you guess?'



'not in the least,' say Helen.



'that Evans be clip the hedge,' say Anne.



Elizabeth and Anne indulge in a good laugh at Helen, as much as at

Ambrose, and presently Elizabeth say, 'well, but, Anne, where be your

crime?'



'oh! I think you have remember, and would spare I,' say Anne.



'but we have not,' say Elizabeth; 'so now for it.'



'then if I be to tell,' say Anne, 'do not you recollect that I begin

to tell Rupert the story in the middle of dinner, when all the servant

be there?'



'o Anne, I never fancy you such a goose!' say Elizabeth.



'my delinquency make very little impression on you, then,' say Anne;

'I go on very fluently with the story till just as I have pronounce

the word, "two-legged blackbird," I see Uncle Woodbourne's eye upon

I, as he sit just opposite, with all its cold heavy sternness of

expression, and at the same moment I hear a strange suppress snort

behind my chair.'



'poor creature!' say Elizabeth; 'but you certainly deserve it.'



'I be ready to sink under the table,' say Anne; 'I do not dare to

look up to Papa or Mamma, and I have be very much oblige to Mamma

ever since for never allude to that terrible dinner.'



'it be a regular proof that Fun be one of the most runaway horse in

existence,' say Elizabeth; 'very charming when well curb, but if you

give he the rein--'



'yes, I have be learn that by sad experience all my life,' say

Anne, with a sigh.



'you will never be silly enough to give he up, though,' say Elizabeth.



'silly, do you call it?' say Helen.



'People think so differently on those matter,' say Anne.



'yes, but a "spirit full of glee" be what I think the most delightful

thing in the world,' say Elizabeth, 'and so do you.'



'yes, in old age, when its blitheness have be prove to be something

beyond animal spirit,' say Anne.



'and it be right that people should have animal spirit in their

youth,' say Elizabeth, 'not grey head on green shoulder, like some

people of my acquaintance.--Do not be affront, Helen; I dare say your

head will grow greener all your life, it be well to-day than it be

on Saturday morning.'



'but the bad of it be,' say Anne, 'that I believe it be very silly

of I, but I be afraid Uncle Woodbourne have always think I a most

foolish girl ever since, and I do not like the idea of it.'



'who would?' say Elizabeth; 'I be afraid I cannot tell you what he

think of your sense, but of this I be sure, that he must think you the

choice damsel of his acquaintance, and wish his daughter be more

like you.'



'and there could not have be the same meaning in his eye when he

look at you, as when he look at Harriet,' say Helen.



'oh no, I hope not,' say Anne.



'and you understand it a little well than one who can only feel

personal inconvenience,' say Elizabeth; 'but how can I blame Harriet

when I be the occasion of her fault? it be a thing I can never bear to

think of.'



as Elizabeth say this, they come to a shop where Anne wish to buy

some little present for some child in the village at home, who, she

say, would value they all the more for not be the production of the

town near they.  they pursue their search for gay remnant of

coloured print, little shawl, and picture pocket-handkerchief, into

the new town, and pass by Mr. Higgins's shop, the window of which be

adorn with all the bad caricature which have find their way to

Abbeychurch, the portrait of sundry radical leader, emboss within a

halo of steel-pen, and a notice of a lecture on 'Personal

respectability,' to be give on the ensue Friday at the Mechanics'

Institute, by the Rev. W. Pierce, the dissent preacher.



Mr. Higgins appear at the shop door, for the express purpose, as it

seem, of honour Miss Merton and Miss Woodbourne each with a very

low bow.



'there, Helen, be my punishment,' say Elizabeth; 'since you be

desirous of poetical justice upon I.'



'not upon you,' say Helen, 'only upon Harriet.'



'Harriet have lose Fido,' say Elizabeth.



here Rupert come to meet they, and no more be say on the subject.



Rupert obey his sister tolerably well during most of the day, though

he be sorely tempt to ask Elizabeth to send Anne an abstract, in

short-hand, of the lecture on Personal Respectability; but he

refrain, for he be really fond of his cousin, and very good-nature,

except when his vanity be offend.



Anne however be in a continual fright, for he delight in tormenting

she by go as near the dangerous subject as he dare; and often, when

no one else think there be any danger, she know by the expression of

his eye that he have some spiteful allusion on his lip.  besides, he

think some of the speech he have make in the morning too clever to

be waste on his mother and sister, when his cousin be there to hear

they, and Anne could not trust to his forbearance to keep they to

himself all day, so that she keep a strict watch upon he.



in the evening, however, Mr. Woodbourne call she and Helen to play

some Psalm tune from which he want to choose some for the Church. he

speak to she in a way which make her hope that he do not think she

quite foolish, but she would have be glad to stay and keep Rupert in

order.  however, she be rejoice to hear Elizabeth propose to he to

play at chess, and she see they sit down very amicably.



this proposal, however, prove rather unfortunate, for Elizabeth be

victorious in the first battle, the second be a draw game, and Rupert

lose the third, just as he think he be win it, from forget

to move out the castle's pawn after castle his king. he could not

bear to be conquer, and push away the chess-board rather pettishly.



'good morning to you, Prince Rupert,' say Elizabeth triumphantly; 'do

you wish for any more?'



Rupert make no answer, but pull the inkstand across the table, open

the paper-case, and take up a pen.



'oh!' say Elizabeth, 'I suppose we may expect a treatise on the art of

fortification, salient angle, and cover way, not forget the

surrender of Bristol.'



no reply, but Rupert scratch away very diligently with his pen, the

inkstand prevent Elizabeth from see what he be about.



'Anne,' say Elizabeth, lean back, and turn round, 'I be think

of make a collection of the hero who could not bear to be beat at

chess, begin with Charlemagne's Paladins, who regularly beat out

each other's brain with the silver chess-board, then the Black Prince,

and Philippe of Burgundy.  can you help I to any more?'



Anne do not hear, and Rupert remain silent as ever; and Elizabeth,

determine to let he make himself as silly as he please, take up her

work and sew on her braid very composedly.  Katherine have come down

again at dinner-time, and be work in silence.  she have be

stand by the piano, but find that no one ask she to play, or

take any notice of she, she have come back to the table.



'dear I, Prince Rupert,' say she, look over his shoulder, 'what

strange thing be you do there?'



'a slight sketch,' say he, 'to be place in Lizzie's album as a

companion to a certain paragraph which I believe she have study.'



Rupert throw his pen-and-ink drawing down before Elizabeth.  it be

really not badly do, and she see in a moment, by the help of the

name which he have scribble below in his bad of all bad writing,

that it represent the Giants, Pope and Pagan, as describe in the

Pilgrim's progress, while, close to Pope, be place a delineation very

like Don Quixote, purport to be the superannuated Giant Chivalry,

bite his nail at a dapper little personification of 'civil and

Religious Liberty.'  a figure whose pointed head, lame foot, and stout

walk-stick, shew he to be intend for Sir Walter Scott, be

throw over he an embroidered surcoat, which a most striking and

ludicrous likeness of Mr. Augustus Mills be pull off at the other

end; and the scene be embellish by a ruin castle in the distance,

and a quantity of skull and cross-bone in the fore-ground.  Elizabeth

could not but think it unkind of he to jest on this matter, while her

eye-lid be still burn and heavy from the tear it have cause she

to shed; but she know Rupert well enough to be certain that it be only

a sign that he be out of temper, and have not yet conquer his old

boyish love of teazing. she put the paper into her basket, say, in a

low tone, 'thank you, Rupert; I shall keep it as a memorial of several

thing, some of which may do I good; but I fear it will always put I

in mind that cavalier of the present day would have little objection

to such battle as I be speak of, even with woman, if this poor old

gentleman do not retain a small degree of vitality.'



Rupert be vex, both at be set down in a way he do not expect,

and because he be really sorry that his wound self-conceit bad lead

he to do what he see have mortify Elizabeth more than he have intend.



'what be it? what be it?' ask Katherine.



'never mind, Kate,' say Rupert.



'well, but what fun be it?' persist Katherine.



'only downright nonsense,' say Rupert, look down, and unconsciously

draw very strange device on the blot paper, 'unworthy the

attention of so wise a lady.'



'only the dry bone of an ill-natured joke,' say Lady Merton, who have

see all that pass, from the other end of the table.  she speak so

low as only to be hear by her son; but Elizabeth see his colour

deepen, and, as he rise and go to the piano, she feel sorry for he,

and soon find an opportunity of remind he that he have promise to

draw something for Edward's scrap-book, and ask he if he would do so

now.



'willingly,' say Rupert, 'but only on one condition, Lizzie.'



'what?' say Elizabeth.



'that you give I back that foolish thing,' say Rupert, fix his

eye intently on the coach and horse which he be draw.



'there it be,' say Elizabeth, restore it to he.  'no, no, Rupert,

do not tear it up, it be the clever thing you ever draw, Sir Walter

be excellent.'



yet, in spite of this commendation, Rupert have tear his performance

into the small scrap, before his sister come back to the table.



Anne have be in some anxiety ever since the conclusion of the game;

but Sir Edward and Mr. Woodbourne be stand between she and the

table, so that she could neither see nor hear, and when at length she

have finish play, and be release, she find Rupert and Elizabeth

so quiet, and so busy with their several employment, that she greatly

dread that all have not go right.  she bethink herself of the

sketch Rupert have make in Scotland, ask he to fetch they, and by

their help, she contrive to restore the usual tone of conversation

between the cousin, so that the remainder of the evening pass away

very pleasantly.



when Anne and Elizabeth awake the follow morning, Anne say that she

have remember, the evening before, just when it be too late to do

anything, that the last Sunday Rupert have leave his prayer-book behind

he at St. Austin's; and as they be to set off on their journey

homeward immediately after breakfast, she ask Elizabeth whether

there would be time to walk to the new church and fetch it before

breakfast.



'I think it would be a very pleasant walk in the freshness of the

morning, if you like to go,' say she.



'oh yes,' say Elizabeth, 'there be plenty of time, and I should like

the walk very much; but really, Anne, you spoil that idle boy in a

terrible way.'



'ah! Rupert be an only son,' say Anne; 'he have a right to be spoil.'



'then I hope that Horace and Edward will save each other from the same

fate,' say Elizabeth; 'I do not like to see a sister make such a slave

as you have be all your life.'



'wait till Horace and Edward be at home in the holiday before you

talk of slavery,' say Anne; 'there will be five slave and two

master, that will be all the difference.'



'well be the male kind call baron in heraldry,' say Elizabeth;

'there be no deny that they be a lordly race; but I think I would

have send Mr. Rupert up the hill himself, rather than go before

breakfast, with a day's journey before I.'



'suppose he would not go?' say Anne.



'let he lose his Prayer-book, then,' say Elizabeth.



'but if I have rather fetch it for he?' say Anne.



'I can only answer that there be no slave as willing as sister,'

say Elizabeth.



the two cousin have a pleasant morning walk up the hill, enjoy the

freshness of the morning air, and watch the various symptom of

waken in the town.  they carry the key of the church with they,

as no clerk have as yet be appoint, and they be still in Mr.

Woodbourne's possession, so that it be not necessary to call anyone to

open the door for they.



Whilst Anne be search for the Prayer-book, Elizabeth stand in the

aisle, her eye fix on the bright red cross in the centre window over

the Altar.  the sun-beam be light it up gloriously, and from it,

her gaze fall upon the Table of Commandments, between it and the Altar.

presently, Anne come and stand by her side in silence. 'Anne,' say

Elizabeth, after a few minute, 'I will tell you what I have be

think of.  on the day when Horace lay the first stone of this

church, two year ago, something put I, I be sorry to say, into one of

my old fit of ill temper.  it be the last violent passion I ever be

in; I either learn to control they, or outgrow they.  and now, may

this affair at the Consecration be the last of my self-will and

self-conceit; for indeed there be much that be fearfully wrong in I to

be correct, before I can dare to think of the Confirmation.'



perhaps we cannot take leave of Elizabeth Woodbourne at a well

moment, therefore we will say no more of she, or of the other

inhabitant of the vicarage, but make a sudden transition to the

conversation, which Anne have hope to enjoy on the journey back to

Merton Hall.



she have tell her father of nearly all her adventure, have give Fido's

history more fully, inform Rupert of all that he have miss, and be

proceed with an account of Helen.  'really,' say she, 'I have much

more hope of she be happy at home, than I have at first.'



'I will answer for it that she will be happy enough,' say Rupert; 'she

have be live on flummery for the last half-year, and you cannot

expect she to be content with mutton-chop just at first.'



'Helen do not find so much fault with the mutton-chop as with the

pepper Lizzie add to they,' say Anne.



'I should be sorry to live without pepper,' say Rupert.



'I be not so sure of that,' say Lady Merton.



'at least you do not wish to have enough to choke you,' say Anne; 'you

must have it in moderation.'



'I think Lizzie be learn moderation,' say Lady Merton; 'she be

acquire more command of impulse, and Helen more command of feeling,

so that I think there be little danger of their not agree.'



'be it not curious, Mamma,' say Anne, 'that we should have be

talk of the necessity of self-control, just before we set out on

this visit, when I tell you that line of Burns be your motto; and now

we find that the want of it be the reason of all that be wrong between

those two sister.  I wonder whether we could make out that any more of

the folly we see in this visit be cause by the same deficiency in

anyone else.'



'begin at home?' say Sir Edward.



'of course, Papa,' say Anne; 'I know that my failure in self-control

have do mischief, though I cannot tell how much.  I laugh at the

Hazlebys continually, in spite of Mamma's warning, and encourage

Lizzie to talk of they when I have well not have do so; and I

allow myself to be lead away by eagerness to hear that foolish

lecture.  I suppose I want control of spirit.'



'and now having finish our own confession, how merrily we begin upon

our neighbour!' say Rupert; 'whom shall we dissect first?'



'indeed, Rupert,' say Anne, 'I do not want to make the most of their

fault, I only wish to study their character, because I think it be a

useful thing to do.  now I do not see that Kate's fault be occasion

by want of self-control; do you think they be, Mamma?'



'do you think that piece of thistle-down possess any self-control?'

say Rupert.



'you mean that Kate do not control her own conduct at all, but be

drift about by every wind that blow,' say Anne; 'yes, it be Miss

Hazleby's influence that make she talk so much more of dress than

usual, and really seem silly than I ever see she before.'



'and what do you say of the fair Harriet herself?' say Rupert.



'nothing,' say Anne.



'and Mrs. Hazleby be her daughter in a magnifying glass,' say Rupert;

'a glorious speciman of what you all may come to.  and Mrs. Woodbourne?'



'oh! I have nothing to do with the elder,' say Anne; 'but if you want

I to find you a fault in she, I shall say that she ought to control

her unwillingness to correct people.  and now we have discuss almost

everyone.'



'from which discussion,' say Rupert, 'it appear that of all the

company at Abbeychurch, the sole possessor of that most estimable

quality, the root of all other excellency, be--your humble servant.'



on this unfortunate speech of poor Rupert's, father, mother, and

sister, all set up a shout of laughter, which last till Rupert begin

to feel somewhat enraged.



'oh! I do not say that I have do with everybody,' say Anne; 'but,

perhaps, whatever I might think, I might not have presumed--'



'o rupert!' say Lady Merton,



          'could some fay the giftie gie we

           to see oursel as other see us--'





'Mamma's beloved Burn's Justice again,' interrupt Rupert.



'no, no, we do not mean to let our mouth be stop,' say Lady

Merton; 'such a challenge must be answer.'



'shew he no mercy, Anne,' say Sir Edward; 'he like pepper.'



'Pray, Rupert,' say Anne, 'what would you have be without

self-control, if, possess such a quantity of it, you still allow

so much spirit of mischief to domineer over you, that you frighten

Dora out of her wit about winifred, and torment Helen all the way to

Whistlefar, and bad of all, that you could not help write that

wicked poem, and then pretend that it be mine; why, it be an

outrage upon we all, it would have be bad enough if the name have

belong to no one, but when you know that he be a real man--'



'and that Miss Hazleby write his name on purpose that something of the

kind might be do,' say Rupert; 'I gratify she beyond measure, and

then be so kind and disintereste as to give you the credit of it, if

you would have accept it.  you may be sure that she will shew the

poem to her hero, and tell he what a charming fellow that young Rupert

Merton be.'



'now just listen, Mamma,' say Anne; 'I beg of Mr. Rupert not to

write anything about Fido in the Conglomeration on Saturday evening;

and because I do so, he would write nothing on his own account, but

pretend to read my verse, he bring out a horrible composition

about a certain Mr. Francis Hollis, who, Miss Hazelby have be tell

we, have be the mean of she go to an officer' ball, at Hull, and

whom she have dance with--'



'Capital, capital!' cry Rupert; 'I never hear all this; I do not

know how good my poem be, I know the truth by intuition.'



'but having hear this make it all the bad for I,' say Anne; 'and

Mamma, this dreadful doggerel--'



'Anne, I declare--' cry Rupert.



'and, Mamma, this dreadful doggerel,' proceed Anne, 'propose to send

Fido's heart to this Mr. Hollis, and so put he in rapture with a gift

from Miss Hazleby, and fill his mind with vision of a surrogate, and a

wedding tour to Harrogate.  now be it not the most impertinent

ungentlemanlike thing you ever hear of?'



'how can you talk such nonsense, Anne?' say Rupert; 'do you think I

should have write it, if I have not know it would please she?'



'I believe you would not have dare to behave in such a manner to

Lizzie, or to anyone else who know what be due to she,' say Anne; 'if

Miss Hazleby be vain and vulgar, she be still a woman, and ought to be

respect as such.'



Rupert laugh rather provokingly. 'it be just as I say,' say Anne;

'now be it not, Mamma?'



'oh yes, Anne,' say Rupert, 'perfectly right, you have catch Helen's

sententious wisdom exactly; I have no doubt that such be the thought

which pass through her mind, while she sit like propriety

personify, wonder how you could have so little sense of decorum as

to laugh at anything so impudent.'



'I know I ought not to have laugh,' say Anne; 'that be one of the

occasion when I do not exert sufficient self-control.  but there be

really very little to laugh at, it be quite an old joke.  Rupert have

dispose of Fido's heart long before, but he be so fond of his own wit,

that he never know when we have have enough of a joke.'



'I could tell you of something much bad, Anne,' say Lady Merton,

'which quite prove the truth of what you say.'



Rupert colour, make an exclamation about something in the road, and

seem so much discompose by this hint, that Anne forbore to ask any

question.



'Rupert fit himself to a T, that we must say for he,' say Sir

Edward.



'what do you mean, Papa?' say Anne.



'there be another word which begin with self-con--' say Lady Merton,'

which suit he remarkably well.'



'ah! ha!' cry Anne.



'at any rate,' cry Rupert vigorously, 'do not make it appear as if I

be the only individual with a tolerable opinion of my own

advantage--when Helen look like the picture of offend dignity if

you presume to say a syllable contrary to some of her opinion, or in

disparagement of dear dykeland; and Kate think herself the most

lovely creature upon earth, and the only useful person in the house;

and Harriet believe no one she equal in the art of fascination; and

Mrs. Woodbourne think no child come within a mile of her in beauty

and excellence; and Lizzie--'



'I be sure few people be more humble-minded than Lizzie,' interrupt

Anne indignantly.



'what, when she would take no one's advice but her own, if it be to

save her life?' say Rupert.



'but she think everyone well than herself, and make no parade

either of her talent or of her usefulness,' say Anne.



'still she have a pretty high opinion of her own judgement,' say Rupert.



'well she may,' say Anne.



'when it lead she to go to Mechanics' Institutes,' say Rupert; 'that

be the reason Anne respect she so much.'



'I advise you to throw no stone at she, Sir,' say Sir Edward; 'it

would be well if some people of my acquaintance be as upright in

acknowledge deficiency in themselves, as she be.'



'besides, I cannot see that Helen be conceited,' say Anne; 'if she

be, she would not be make unhappy by other people's criticism.'



'Helen want a just estimate of herself,' say Lady Merton; 'she care

more for what people say of what she do, than whether it be good in

itself.'



'but, Anne,' say Sir Edward, 'why do not you claim to be the only

person in the world devoid of conceit?'



'because I be conceited in all the way which Rupert have mention,'

say Anne; 'I believe myself witty, and wise, and amiable, and useful,

and agreeable, and I do not like take advice, and I be very angry

when my friend be abuse, and I do believe I think I have the most

exquisite brother in the world; and besides, if I say I be not

conceite it would be the well possible proof of the contrary.--But,

Mamma, there be a person whom we have not mention, who have no conceit

and plenty of self-control.'



'do you mean little Dora?' say Lady Merton.



'no, not Dora, though I be pretty much of Mrs. Woodbourne's opinion

respect she,' say Anne; 'I mean one who be always overlook, Miss

Lucy Hazleby.'



'she may have every virtue upon earth for aught I know,' say Rupert;

'I can only testify that she have un grand talent pour le silence.'



'I only know she from what my cousin tell I,' say Anne; 'they seem

to have a great respect for she, though Helen be the only person she

ever seem to talk to.  I never could make she speak three word to I.'



'she have a fine countenance and very sweet expression, certainly,' say

Lady Merton.



'poor girl,' say Sir Edward; 'she blush so much, that it be almost

painful to look at she.'



'you seem to be utterly deficient in proof of her excellence,' say

Rupert; 'you will leave she a blank page at last.'



'page be not always blank when you see nothing on they,' say Lady

Merton; 'character may be bring out by the fire.'



'yes, Mamma, the fire of temptation,' say Anne; 'and I have hear Lucy

try by her mother's violence, and she never conceal any part of the

truth as far as only regard herself, even to avoid those terrible

unjust reproof, and put herself forward to bear her sister's share of

blame; and she be firm in turn back from the Mechanics' Institute

when her sister scold she.'



'Firmness, which, in so timid a person, prove that she have more

self-control than any of you,' say Sir Edward.



'then let we wind up the history of our visit in a moral style,' say

Anne, 'and call it a lesson on self-control and Self-conceit.'



'nonsense,' say Rupert; 'do you think that if anyone read its history,

they would learn any such lesson unless you tell they beforehand?'



'perhaps not,' say Sir Edward, 'as you have not learn it from your

whole life.'



'no,' say Lady Merton; 'that lesson be not to be learn by anyone who

be not on the watch for it.'



'so we conclude with Mamma's wisdom,' say Rupert.



'and Rupert's folly,' say Anne.









the END























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK ABBEYCHURCH; or, self-CONTROL and self-CONCEIT ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





