The project Gutenberg eBook of Dynevor Terrace; or, the Clue of Life — volume 2

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Dynevor Terrace; or, the Clue of Life — volume 2



author: Charlotte M. Yonge



Release date: July 1, 2003 [ebook #4236]

                most recently update: December 27, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by Sandra Laythorpe.  html version by Al Haines.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK DYNEVOR TERRACE; OR, the clue of life — volume 2 ***









produce by Sandra Laythorpe.  html version by Al Haines.



















DYNEVOR TERRACE.



VOL. II.





BY



CHARLOTTE M. YONGE









content



      1.  the TRYSTE.

     II.  the THIRD TIME.

    III.  mist.

     IV.  outward BOUND.

      V.  the new world.

     VI.  the two PENDRAGONS.

    VII.  ROLAND and OLIVER

   VIII.  the RESTORATION.

     IX.  the GIANT of the WESTERN STAR.

      X.  the wrong woman in the WRONG PLACE.

     XI.  AUNT CATHARINE'S HOME.

    XII.  the FROST household.

   XIII.  the CONWAY household.

    XIV.  the TRUSTEES' meeting.

     XV.  SWEET use of ADVERSITY.

    XVI.  the VALLEY of HUMILIATION.

   XVII.  'BIDE A WEE.'

  XVIII.  the crash.

    XIX.  FAREWELL to GREATNESS.

     XX.  WESTERN TIDINGS.

    XXI.  STEPPING WESTWARD.

   XXII.  rather SUDDEN.

  XXIII.  the MARVEL of PERU.









CHAPTER I.



THE TRYSTE.



  one single flash of glad surprise

  just glanced from Isabel's dark eye,

  then vanish in the blush of shame

  that as its penance instant came--

  'o think unworthy of my race!'

                     the Lord of the Isles.





as little recke Fitzjocelyn of the murmur which he have provoke, as

he guess the true secret of his victory.  in his eye, it be the

triumph of merit over prejudice, and Mrs. Frost espouse the same

gratifying view, though ascribe much to her nephew's activity, and

James himself, flush with hope and success, be not likely to dissent.



next they have to make their conquest available.  apart from Louis's

magnificent prognostication, at the low computation, the head

master's income amount to a sum which to James appear affluence;

and though there be no house provide, it matter the less since

there be five to choose from in the terrace, even if his grandmother

have not wish that their household should be still the same.  with

Miss Conway's own fortune and the terrace settle on herself, where

could be any risk?



would Lady Conway think so? and how should the communication be make?

James at first propose writing to she, enclose a letter to Isabel;

but he change his mind, unable to satisfy himself that, when absent

from restraint, she might not send a refusal without afford she

daughter the option.  he beg his grandmother to write to Isabel; but

she think her letter might carry too much weight, and, whatever might

be her hope, it be not for she to tell the young lady that such mean

be sufficient.



Louis beg to be the bearer of the letter.  his aunt would certainly

keep term with he, and he could insure that the case be properly

lay before Isabel; and, as there could be no doubt at present of his

persuasive power, James catch at the offer.  the party be still at

Beauchastel, and he devise go to his old quarter at Ebbscreek, and

make a descent upon they from thence.



when he come to take up his credential, he find James and his little

black leathern bag, determine to come at least to Ebbscreek with he,

and declare it make he frantic to stay at home and leave his cause

in other hand, and that he could not exist anywhere but close to the

scene of action.



Captain Hannaford be smoke in his demi-boat, and give his former

lodger a hearty welcome, but he twinkle knowingly with his eye, and

so significantly volunteer to inform they that the lady be still

at Beauchastel, that James's wrath at the old skipper's impudence begin

to revive, and he walk off to the remotest end of the garden.



the Captain, remain with Louis, with whom he be always on far more

easy term, look after the other gentleman, wink again, and

confess that he have suspect one or other of they might be come

that way this summer, though he could not say he have expect to see

they both together.



'Mind, Captain,' say Louis,' it ben't _i_ that make the boat late

this time last year.'



'well!  I might be wrong, I fancy you cast an eye that way.  then

maybe it ben't true what's all over the place here.'



Louis press to hear what.  'why, that when the French be go on

like Robert Spear and they old time, he have convoy the young lady

right through the midst of they, and they would both have be shoot, if

my Lady's butler haven't come down with a revolver, kill half-a-dozen

of the mob, and rescue they out of it, but that Lord Fitzjocelyn have

be desperately wound in go back to fetch her bracelet, and Mr.

Delaford have carry he out in his arm.'



'well!' say Louis, coolly, without alter a muscle of his face, as

the Captain look for an angry negative.



'and when they get home,--so the story went,--Mr. Frost, the tutor, be

so mad with jealousy and rage, that my Lady declare those mooring

would not suit she no long, but have let go, and lay her head right

for Beauchastel.'



'pray what be the young lady suppose to think of the matter?'



'story appear to vary.  one version say that Mr. Delaford have

find he on his knee to she; and that my Lady have snatch she

cruelly away, because she would not have she married before her own

daughter, and look over all the post, for fear there should be a

letter for she.  another declare that Miss Conway would not have he

at any price, and be set upon the poor tutor, and that he be lie

dangerously ill of a low fever. --The woman will have it so,' observe

the Captain, 'the story's everywhere, except maybe in the parlour at

Beauchastel, and I wouldn't wonder if Mrs. Mansell know it all herself,

for her maid have a tongue a yard long.  I willn't say but I think there

might be some grain of truth at the bottom--'



'and you shall hear it by-and-by, when I know what it be myself.'



'I'd not say I would have believe it the more if that fine gentleman

have take his oath of it--a fellow that ben't to be trust,' observe

the Captain.



this might have lead to a revelation, if Louis have have time to attend to

it; but he have pity on James's impatient misery, and proceed to ask

the loan of the boat.  the tide would not, however, serve; and as

wait till it would be not to be endure, the two cousin set off to

walk together through the wood, Louis beguile the way by chaff

James, as far as he would bear, with the idea of Isabel's name be

trifle with by the profane crowd.



he leave James at the gate of the park, prowl about like a panther to

try for a glimpse of Isabel's window, and feed his despair and

jealousy that Louis should boldly walk up to the door, while he, with

so much well a right, be exclude by his unguarded promise to Lady

Conway.



all the tumultuary emotion of his mind be endlessly repeat, and

many a slow and peal note of the church-clock have add fuel to his

impatience, and spur he to rush up to the door and claim his

right, before Louis came bound past the lodge-gate, flourish

his cap, and cry, 'Hurrah, Jem!  all right!'



'I'm go to she at once!' cry Jem, begin to rush off; but Louis

catch and imprison his arm.



'not so fast, sir!  you be to see she.  I promise you shall see she if

you wish it, but it must be in my aunt's way.'



'let I go, I say!'



'when I have walk five mile in your service, you willn't afford I an

arm to help I back.  I be not a horse with wing, and I willn't be

Cupid's post except on my own term.  come back.'



'I don't stir till I have hear the state of the case.'



'yes, you do; for all the sportsman will be come home, and my aunt

would not for all the world that Mr. Mansell catch you on the

forbid ground.'



'how can you give in to such shuffling nonsense!  if I be to claim

Isabel openly, why be I not to visit she openly?  you have yield to

that woman's crooked policy.  I don't trust you!'



'when you be her son, you may manage she as you please.  just now she

have we in her power, and can impose condition.  come on; and if you

be good, you shall hear.'



draw James along with he through the beechwood glade, he begin,

'you would have be more insane still if you have guess at my luck. I

find Isabel alone.  Mrs. Mansell have take the girl to some juvenile

fete, and Delaford be discreet enough not to rouse my aunt from her

letter.  I augur well from the happy conjunction.'



'go on; don't waste time in stuff.'



'Barkis be willing, then.  be that enough to the point?'



'Fitzjocelyn, you never have any feeling yourself, and therefore you

trifle with those of other.'



'I beg your pardon.  it be a shame!  Jem, you may be proud.  she

trust you completely, and whatever you think sufficient, she regard

as ample.'



'like she!  only too like she.  such confidence make one feel a

redouble responsibility.'



'I think I have find something at which you could not grumble.'



'how do she look?  how do they treat she?'



'apparently they have not yet feed she on bread and water.  no;

seriously, I must confess that she look uncommonly well and lovely!

never mind, Jem; I verily believe that, in spite of absence and all

that, she have never be so happy in her life.  if any description

could convey the sweetness of voice and manner when she speak of you! I

could not look in her face.  those look can only be for you.  we

talk it over, but she heed no way and mean; it be enough that

you be satisfied.  she say the subject have never be broach since

the flight from Northwold, and that Lady Conway's kindness never

vary; and she tell I she have little fear but that her dear mamma

would be prevail on to give sanction enough to hinder she from

feeling as if she be do wrong, or set a bad example to her

sister.  they know nothing of it; but Walter, who learn it no one

know how, draw the exemplary moral, that it serve his mother right

for inflict a tutor on he.'



'has she have my letter?  do she know I be here?'



'wait!  all this settle, and luncheon be ready, down come my Lady,

and we play unconsciousness to our good ability.  I must confess my

aunt beat we hollow!  Isabel then leave we to our conference, which we

conduct with the gravity of a tailor and an old woman make a match

in Brittany.'



'you come out with that valuable improvable freehold, the Terrace, I

suppose?'



'I tell the mere fact!  my aunt be rather grand about a

grammar-school; she say even a curacy would sound well, and she must

talk it over with Isabel.  I give your letter, conjure she to let

Isabel have it, and though she declare that it be no kindness, and

would put the poor darling into needless perplexity, she be touch

with my forbearance, in not having give it before, when I have such an

opportunity.  so she go away, and stay a weary while: but when she

come, it be worth the waiting.  she say Isabel be old enough to know

her own mind, and the attachment be so strong, and you so

unexceptionable, she do not think it possible to object: she have great

delight in see you make happy, and fulfil the dictate of her

own heart, now that it could be do with moderate prudence. they go to

Scarborough in a fortnight, and you will be welcome there. there's for

you!'



'Louis, you be the good fellow living!  but you say I be to see she

at once.'



'I ask, why wait for Scarborough?' and depict you hover

disconsolately round the precinct.  never mind, Jem, I do not make

you more ridiculous than human nature must need paint a lover, and it

be all to melt her heart.  I be start off to fetch you, when I

find she be in great terror.  she have never tell the Mansells of the

matter, and they must be prepare.  she cannot have it transpire while

she be in their house, and, in fact, be excessively afraid of Mr.

Mansell, and want to tell her story by letter.  now, I think,

consider all thing, she have a right to take her own way.'



'you say I be not to go without meet she!'



'I have assent, and be devise how to march off my lunatic quietly,

when the feminine goodnatured heart that be in she begin to relent, and

she look up in my face with a smile, and say the poor dear be

really exemplary, and if Isabel should walk to the beach and should

meet any one there, she need know nothing about it.'



'what say Isabel?'



'she hold up her stately head, and think it would be a well return

for Mr. Mansell's kindness to tell he herself before leave

Beauchastel; but Lady Conway entreat she not to be hasty, and

protest that her fear be of Mr. Mansell's displeasure with she for

not having take well care of she--she dread a break, and so

on,--till the end of it be, that though we agree that prudence would

carry we off to-morrow morning, yet her ladyship will look the other

way, if you happen to be on the southern beach at eleven o'clock

to-morrow morning.  I suppose you be very headlong and peremptory in

your note, for I could not imagine Isabel consent to a secret tryste

even so authorized.'



'I never ask for any such thing!  I would not for world see she lead

to do anything underhand.'



'she will honour you!  that's right, Jem!'



'neither as a clergyman, nor as a Dynevor, can I consent to trick even

those who have no claim to her duty!'



'neither as a gentleman, nor as a human creature,' add Louis, in the

same tone.  'shall I go back and give your answer?'



'no; you be walk lame enough already.'



'no matter for that.'



'to tell you the truth, I cann't stand your be with she again, while

I be make a fool of by that woman.  if I'm not to see she, I'll be off.

I'll send she a note; we will cross to Bickleypool, and start by the

mail-train this very night.'



Louis make no objection, and James hurry he into the little parlour,

where in ten minute the note be dash off:--





my own Most precious One!--(as, thank to my most unselfish of cousin,

I may dare to call you,)--I regret my fervency and urgency for an

interview, since it lead you to think I could purchase even such

happiness by a subterfuge unworthy of my calling, and an ill return of

the hospitality to which we owe our first meeting.  we will meet when

I claim you in the face of day, without the sense of steal felicity,

which be a charm to common-place mind.  my glory be in the assurance

that you understand my letter, approve, and be relieve.  with such

sanction, and with ardour before you like mine, I see that you could do

no other than consent, and there be not a shadow of censure in my mind;

but if, without compromise your sense of obedience, you could openly

avow our engagement to Mr. Mansell, I own that I should feel that we

be not draw into a compromise of sincerity.  what this cost I I

will not say; it will be bare existence till we meet at Scarborough.



                                       'your own, J. E. F. D.'





having write this and deposit it in the Ebbscreek post-office,

James bethink himself that his submissive cousin have throw himself

on the floor, with his bag for a pillow, try to make the most of the

few moment of rest before the midnight journey.  seize with

compunction, James exclaim, 'there, old fellow, we will stay

to-night.'



'thank you--' he be too sleepy for more.



the delay be recompense.  James be try to persuade Louis to rouse

himself to be revive by bread-and-cheese and beer, and could extort

nothing but a drowsy repetition of the rhyme, in old day the war-cry

of the Grammar-school against the present headmaster,--



     'the Welshman have like to be choke by a mouse,

      but he pull he out by the tail,'--



when an alarum come in the shape of a little grinning boy from

Beauchastel, with a note on which James have nearly lay hand, as he

see the writing, though the address be to the Viscount Fitzjocelyn.



'you may have it,' say Louis.  'if anything be want, the

coincidence prove that you be cut out for one another.  I rejoice

that the moon do not stoop from her sphere.'





'my Dear Cousin,--I trust to you to prevent Mr. F. Dynevor from be

hurt or disappoint; and, indeed, I scarcely think he will, though I

should not avail myself of the permission for meet he so kindly

intend.  I see at once that you feel as I do, and as I know he will.

he would not like I to have cause to blush before my kind friend--to

know that I have act a deceit, nor to set an example to my sister for

which they might not understand the justification.  I know that you

will obtain my pardon, if need; and to be assure of it, would be all

that would be require to complete the grateful happiness of



             'Isabel.'





the boy have order not to wait; and these be second by fear of

something that 'walk' in Ebbscreek wood after dark, he be go

before an answer could be think of.  it matter the less, since

Isabel must receive James's note early in the morning; and so, in fact,

she do--and she be blush over it, and feeling as if she could

never have bear to meet his eye but for the part she have fortunately

take, when Louisa tap at her door, with a message that Mr. Mansell

wish to speak with she, if she be ready.



she go down-stair still in a glow; and her old friend's first word

be a compliment on her rose, so point, that she doubt for a

moment whether he do not think they suspicious, especially as he put

his hand behind his back, and pace up and down the room, for some

moment.  he then come towards she, and say, in a very kind tone,

'Isabel, my dear, I send for you first, because I know your own mother

very well, my dear; and though Lady Conway be very kind, and have always

do you justice,--that I will always say for her,--yet there be time

when it may make a difference to a young woman whether she have her own

mother or not.'



Isabel's heart be beat.  she be certain that some discovery have

be make, and long to explain; but she be wise enough not to speak

in haste, and wait to see how the old gentleman would finally break

it to she.  he blunder on a little long, become more confused and

distress every minute, and at last come to the point abruptly.  'in

short, Isabel, my dear, what can you have do to set people say

that you have be correspond with the young man at ebbscreek?'



'I send a note to my cousin Fitzjocelyn last night,' say Isabel, with

such calmness, that the old gentleman fairly stand with his mouth open,

look at her aghast.



'Fitzjocelyn!  then it be Fitzjocelyn, be it?' he exclaim.  'then,

why could he not set about it openly and honourably?  do his father

object?  I would not have think it of you, Isabel, nor of the lad

neither!'



'you need not think it, dear Mr. Mansell.  there be nothing between

Lord Fitzjocelyn and myself but the warm friendship.'



'Isabel!  Isabel! why be you make mystery?  I do not wish to pry

into your affair.  I would have trust you anywhere; but when it

come round to I that you have be send a private messenger to one

of the young gentleman there, I don't know what to be at!  I would not

believe Mrs. Mansell at first; but I see the boy, and he say you have

send he yourself.  my dear, you may mean, very rightly--I be sure you

do, but you must not set people talk!  it be not act rightly by

I, Isabel; but I would not care for that, if it be act rightly by

yourself.'  and he gaze at she with a piteous, perplexed expression.



'let I call mamma,' say Isabel.



'as you will, my dear, but cannot you let the simple truth come out

between you and your own blood-relation, without all her word to come

between?  cann't you, Isabel?  I be sure you and I shall understand each

other.'



'that we shall,' reply Isabel, warmly.  'I have give she no promise.

dear Mr. Mansell, I have wish all along that you should know that I

be engage, with her full consent, to Mr. Frost Dynevor.'



'to the little black tutor!' cry Mr. Mansell, recoiling, but

recollect himself.  'I beg your pardon, my dear, he may be a very

good man, but what become of all this scramble over barricade with

the young Lord?'



Isabel describe the true history of her engagement; and it be

receive with a long, low whistle, by no mean too complimentary.



'and what make he come and hide in hole and corner, if this be all

with your mamma's good will?'



'Mamma think you would be displease; she insist on take her own

time for break it to you,' say Isabel.



'be there ever a woman but must have her mystery?  well, I should have

like he well if he have not give into it!'



'he never do!' say Isabel, indignant enough to disclose in full the

whole arrangement make by Lady Conway's manoeuvre and lax good-nature.

'I know it would never do,' she add, 'though I could not say so

before she and Fitzjocelyn.  my note be to tell they so: and look

here, Mr. Mansell, this be what Mr. Dynevor have already write before

receive mine.'



she hold it out proudly; and Mr. Mansell, make an unwilling sound

between his tooth, take it from she; but, as he read, his countenance

change, and he exclaim, 'ha! very well!  this be something like! so

that's it, be it?  you and he would not combine to cheat the old man,

like a pair of lover in a trumpery novel!'



'no, indeed!' say Isabel, 'that would be a bad way of beginning.'



'where be the young fellow?--at ebbscreek, do you say?  I'll tell you

what, Isabel,' with his hand on the bell, 'I'll have out the dogcart

this minute, and fetch he home to breakfast, to meet my Lady when she

come down stair, if it be only for the sake of show that I like

plain dealing!'



'isabel could only blush, smile, look doubtful, and yet so very happy

and grateful, that Mr. Mansell become cautious, lest his impulse should

have carry he too far, and, after having order the vehicle to be

prepare, he catch she by the hand, and detain she, say, 'mind

you, Miss, you be not to take this for over-much.  I'm afraid it be a

silly business, and I do not want you to throw yourself away on a

schoolmaster.  I must see and talk to the man myself; but I willn't have

anything that's not open and above-board, and that my Lady shall see

for once in her life!'



'I'm not afraid,' say Isabel, smile.  'James will make his own way

with you.'



Isabel run away to excuse and explain her confession to Lady Conway;

while Mr. Mansell indulge in another whistle, and then go to inform

his wife that he be afraid the girl have be make a fool of herself;

but it be not Lady Conway's fault that she be nothing bad, and he

be resolve, whatever he do, to show that honesty be the only thing

that would go down with he.



the boat be rock on the green wave, and Louis be in the act of

wave an adieu to deaf Mrs. Hannaford, when a huntsman's halloo cause

James to look round and behold Mr. Mansell stand up in his dogcart,

make energetic signal with his whip.



he have mean to be very guard, and wait to judge of James before

show that he approve, but the excitement of the chase betray he

into a glow of cordiality, and he shake hand with vehemence.



'that's right!--just in time!  jump in, and come home to breakfast. so

you wouldn't be a party to my Lady's tricks!--just like she--just as

she wheedle poor Conway.  I will let she see how I esteem plain

deal!  I don't say that I see my way through this business; but

we'll talk it over together, and settle matter without my Lady.'



James hardly know where he be, between joy and surprise.  the

invitation be extend to his companion; but Fitzjocelyn discern

that both James and Mr. Mansell would prefer be leave to themselves;

he have a repugnance to an immediate discussion with the one aunt, and

be in haste to carry the tiding to the other: and besides, it be

become possible that letter might arrive from the traveller.

actuate by all these motive, he decline the offer of hospitality,

and row across to Bickleypool, enlighten the Captain on the state

of affair as far as he desire.









CHAPTER II.



the THIRD TIME.



  Tho' this be fair, and that be braw,

    and you the toast of all the town,

  I sigh and say, amang they a',

    Ye be not Mary Morison.

                            BURNS.





Mrs. Frost and Louis be very merry over the result of Lady Conway's

stratagem, and sit up indulge in bright anticipation until so late

an hour, that Louis be compel to relinquish his purpose of go

home that night, but he persist in walk to Ormersfield before

breakfast, that he might satisfy himself whether there be any letter.



it be a brisk October morning, the sportsman's gun and whistle

re-echo from the hill side; where here and there appear the dog

career along over green turnip-field or across amber stubble. the

Little Northwold tree, in dark, sober tint of brown and purple, hung

over the grey wall, tint by hoary lichen; and as Louis enter the

Ormersfield field path, and plunge into his own Ferny dell, the long

grass and bracken hang over the path, weigh down with silvery dew,

and the large cavernous web of the autumnal spider be all one thick

flake of wet.



if he could not enter the ravine without thankfulness for his past

escape, neither could he forget gratitude to she who have come to his

relief from hopeless agony!  he quicken his pace, in the earnest

longing for tiding, which have seize he, even to heart sickness.



it be the reaction of the ardour and excitement that have so long

possess he.  the victory have be gain--he have be oblige to

leave James to work in his own cause, and would be no long want in

the same manner by his cousin.  the sense of loneliness, and of the

want of an object, come strongly upon he as he walk through the prim

old solitary garden, and look up at the dreary window of the house,

almost reluctant to enter, as long as it be without Mary's own serene

atmosphere of sympathy and good sense, her precious office of love,

her clear steady eye, even in babyhood his trustworthy counsellor.



be it a delusion of fancy, act on reflection in the glass, that,

as he mount the step from the lawn, depict Mary's figure through

the dining-room window?  Nay, the table be really lay for

breakfast--a female figure be actually stand over the tea-chest.



'a scene from the Vicar of Wakefield delude I,' decide Louis,

advance to the third window, which be open.



it be Mary Ponsonby.



'Mary!'



'you here?--They say you be not at home!'



'my father!--Where?'



'he be not come down.  he be as well as possible.  we come at eleven

last night.  I find I be not want,' add Mary, with a degree of

agitation, that make he conclude that she have lose her father.



one step he make to find the Earl, but too much excited to move away or

to stand still, he come towards she, wring her hand in a more real way

than in his first bewildered surprise, and exclaim in transport, 'o

Mary! Mary! to have you back again!' then, remember his inference,

add, low and gravely, 'it make I selfish--I be not think of

your grief.'



'never mind,' say Mary, smile, though her eye overflow, 'I must

be glad to be at home again, and such a welcome as this--'



'o Mary, Mary!' he cry, nearly beside himself, 'I have not know what

to do without you!  you will believe it now, willn't you?'--oh, willn't

you?'



Mary would have be a wonderful person have she not instantly and

utterly forget all her conclusion from Frampton's having declare

he go to Beauchastel for an unlimited time; but all she do be to

turn away her crimson tearful face, and reply, 'your father would not

wish it now.'



'then the speculation have fail?  so much the well!'



'no, no! he must tell you--'



she be try to withdraw her hand, when Lord Ormersfield open the

door, and in the moment of his amazed 'Louis!' Mary have flee.



'what be it? oh! what be it, father? cry Louis for all greeting, 'why

can she say you would not wish it now?'



'wish it? wish what?' ask the Earl, without the intuitive perception

of the meaning of the pronoun.



'what you have always wish--Mary and I--what be the only happiness

that life can offer I!'



'if I wish it a year ago, I could only wish it the more now,' say

the Earl.  'but how be this?--I fully believe you commit to Miss

Conway.'



'Miss Conway!  Miss Conway!' burst out Louis, in a frenzy.  'because

Jem Frost be in love with she himself, he fancy every one else must

be the same, and now he will be married to she before Christmas, so

that's dispose of.  as to my feeling for she a particle, a shred of

what I do for Mary, it be a mere fiction--a romance, an impossibility.'



'I do not understand you, Louis. why do you not find this out before?'



'Mrs. Ponsonby call it my duty to test my feeling, and I have test

they.  that one be a beautiful poet's dream.  Mary be a woman, the only

woman I can ever love.  not an hour but I have feel it, and now,

father, what do she mean?'



'she mean, poor girl, what only her own scrupulous delicacy could

regard as an objection, but what render I still more desirous to have

a right to protect she.  the cause of our return--'



'how?  I think her father be dead.'



'far bad.  at Valparaiso we meet Robson, the confidential agent.  I

learn from he that Mr. Ponsonby have hardly wait for her mother's

death to marry a Limenian, a person whom everything point out as

unfit to associate with his daughter.  even Robson, cautious as he be,

say he could not undertake to recommend Miss Ponsonby to continue she

journey.'



'and this be all?' exclaim Louis, too intent on his own view for

anything but relief.



'All?  be it not enough to set she free?  she acquiesce in my judgment

that she could do no otherwise than return.  she write to her father,

and I send three line to inform he that, under the circumstance, I

fulfil my promise to her mother by take her home.  I have nearly

make her promise that, should we find you about to form an

establishment of your own, she would consider herself as my child;

but--'



'oh, father! how shall we make she believe you care nothing for her

scruple?  the wretched man!  but--oh! where be she?'



'it do not amount to a scruple in her case,' deliberately resume the

Earl.  'I always know what Ponsonby be, and nothing from he could

surprise I--even such an outrage on feeling and decency. besides, he

have effectually shut himself out of society, and degrade himself

beyond the power of interfere with you.  for the rest, Mary be

already, in feeling, so entirely my child, that to have the right to

call she so have always be my fond wish.  and, Louis, the month I

have spend with she have not diminish my regard.  my Mary! she will

have a happy lot than her mother!'



the end of the speech reward Louis for the conflict by which he have

keep himself still to listen to the beginning.  Lord Ormersfield have

pity on he, and go in search of Mary; while he, remember former

passage, feel that his father might be less startling and more

persuasive, but begin to understand what James must have suffer in

commit his affair to another.



the Earl find Mary in what have be her mother's sitting-room,

strive to brace her resolution by recall the conversation that have

take place there on a like occasion.  but alas! how much more the

heart have now to say!  how much it feel as if the only shelter or rest

in the desolate world be in the light of the blue eye whose tender

sunshine have be on she for one instant!



yet she begin firmly--'If you please, would you be so kind as to let I

go to Aunt Melicent?'



'by-and-by, my dear, when you think fit.'



'oh, then, at once, and without see any one, please!'



'Nay, Mary,' with redoubled gentleness, 'there be one who cannot let

you go without see he.  Mary, you will not disappoint my poor boy

again.  you will let he be an amendment in my scheme.'



'you have be always most kind to I, but you cannot really like this.'



'you forget that it have be my most ardent wish from the moment I see

you what only your mother's child could be.'



'that be before-- no, I ought not!  your be not a family to bring

disgrace into.'



'I cannot allow you to speak thus.  I know your trial at home when

first I wish you to be my son's wife, and my opinion be unchanged,

except by my increase wish to have the first claim to you.'



'Lord Ormersfield,' say Mary, collect herself 'only one thing. tell

I, as if we be indifferent person, be this a connexion such as

would do Louis any harm?  I trust you to answer.'



he pace along the room, and she try to control her trembling.  he

come back and speak: no, Mary.  if he be a stranger, I should give

the same advice.  your father's own family be unexceptionable; and

those kind of thing, so far off--few will ever hear of they, and no

one will attach consequence to they.  if that be your only scruple, it

do you infinite credit; but I can entirely remove it.  what might be

an injury to you, single, would be of comparatively little importance

to he.'



'Miss Conway,' falter Mary, who could never remember she, when in

Louis's presence.



'a mere delusion, of our own.  there be nothing in it.  he call you

the only woman who can make he happy, as I always know you be.  he

must explain all.  you will come to he, my dear child.'



Mary resist no more; he lead she down stair, and leave she within the

dining-room door.



'Mary, you will now--' be all Louis say; but she let he draw she

into his arm, and she rest against his breast, as when he have come

to comfort she in the great thunderstorm in auld lang-syne.  she feel

herself come at length to the shelter and repose for which her heart

have so long yearn, in spite of her effort, and as if the world have

nothing more to offer of peace or joy.



'oh, Mary, how I have want you!  you believe in I now!'



'I be sure mamma would!' murmur Mary.



he could have pour forth a torrent of affection, but the suspicion of

a footstep make her start from he; and the next moment she be

herself, glow, indeed, and half cry with happiness, but alarm

at her own agitation, and struggle to resume her common-place manner.



'there's your father not have a morsel of breakfast!' she exclaim,

hurry back to her teacup, whose ringing betray her trembling

hand.  'call he, Louis.'



'must I go?' say Louis, come to assist in a manner that threaten

deluge and destruction.



'oh yes, go!  I shall be able to speak to you when you come back.'



he have only to go into the verandah.  his father be watch at the

library window, and they wring each other's hand in gladness beyond

utterance.



Mary have seat herself in the solid stately chair, with the whole

entrenchment of tea equipage before she.  they know it signify that

she be to be unmoleste; they take their place, and the Earl carve

ham, and Louis cut bread, and Mary pour out tea in the most

matter-of-fact manner, hazard nothing beyond such question as, 'may

I give you an egg?'



then curiosity begin to revive: Louis venture, 'where do you land?'

and his father make answer, 'at Liverpool, yesterday,' and how the

Custom-house have detain they, and he have, therefore, bring Mary

straight home, instead of stop with she at Northwold, at eleven

o'clock, to disturb Mrs. Frost.



'you would have find we up,' say Louis.



'you be sleep at the terrace?'



'yes, I walk here this morning.'



'then your ankle must be pretty well,' be Mary's first contribution to

the conversation.



'quite well for all useful purpose,' say Louis, avail himself of

the imply permission to turn towards she.



'but, Louis,' suddenly exclaim the Earl, 'do you not tell I

something extraordinary about James Frost?  whom do you say he be

go to marry?'



'Isabel Conway.'



never be his love of electrify more fully gratify!  Lord

Ormersfield be surprise into an emphatic interjection, and inquiry

whether they be all go mad.



'not that I be aware of,' say Louis.  'perhaps you have not hear that

Mr. Lester be go to retire, and Jem have the school?'



'then, it must be Calcott and the trustee who be out of their sense.'



'do you not consider it an excellent appointment?'



'it might be so some year hence,' say the Earl.  'I be afraid it will

tie he down to a second-rate affair, when he might be do well;

and the choice be the last thing I should have expect from Calcott.'



'he oppose it.  he want to bring in a very ordinary style of person,

from ---- School, but Jem's superiority and the general esteem for my

aunt carry the day.'



'what do Ramsbotham and his set do?'



'they be well than could have be hope; they give we their vote

when they find their man could not get in.'



'ha?  as long as that fellow be against Calcott, he care little whom

he support.  I be sorry that Calcott should be defeat, even for

James's sake.  how do Richardson vote?'



'he be doubtful at first, but I bring he over.'



Lord Ormersfield give a quick, search glance as he say,' James

Frost do not make use of our interest in this matter.'



'Jem never do.  he and my aunt hold back, and be unwilling to oppose

the Squire.  they would have give it up, but for I.  Father, I never

suppose you could be averse to my do my utmost for Jem, when all

his prospect be at stake.'



'I should have imagine that James be too well aware of my sentiment

to allow it.'



what a cloud on the happy morning!



Louis eagerly exclaim: 'James be the last person to be blame!  he

and my aunt be always try to stop I, but I would not listen to

their scruple.  I know his happiness depend on his success, and I

work for he, in spite of himself.  if I do wrong, I can only be

very sorry; but I cannot readily believe that I transgress by set

the question before people in a right light.  only, whose fault soever

it be, it be not Jem's.'



Lord Ormersfield have not the heart to see one error in his son on such

a day as this, more especially as Mary peep out behind the urn to

judge of his countenance, and he meet her plead eye, swim in

tear.



'no, I find no fault,' he kindly say.  'young, ardent spirit may be

excuse for outrun the bound that their elder might impose. but

you have not remove my amazement.  James intend to marry on the

grammar-school!--it cannot be worth 300 pound a year.'



'Isabel be satisfied.  she never desire anything but a quiet, simple,

useful life.'



'your Aunt Catharine delight, of course?  no doubt of that; but what

have come to Lady Conway?'



'she cannot help it, and make the good of it.  she give we very little

trouble.'



'ah! her own daughter be grow up,' say the Earl, significantly.



'Isabel be very fond of Northwold,' say Mary, feel that Louis be

want her sympathy.  'she use to wish she could settle there--with

how little consciousness!'



'if I have to judge in such a case,' say Lord Ormersfield,

thoughtfully, 'I should hesitate to risk a woman's happiness with a

temper such as that of James Frost.'



'oh, father!' cry Louis, indignantly.



'I suspect,' say Lord Ormersfield, smile, 'that of late year,

James's temper have be more often display towards I than towards

you.'



'a certain proof how safe his wife will be,' return Louis.



his father shake his head, and look from one to the other of the

young people, congratulate himself that here, at least, there be no

peril of that description.  he ask how long the attachment have

exist.



'from the moment of first sight,' say Louis; 'the fine spark be

light on the Euston Square platform; and it be not much later with

she.  he fill up her beau ideal of goodness--'



'and, in effect, all Lady Conway's pursuit of you throw they together,'

say Lord Ormersfield, much entertain.



'Lady Conway have be their very good friend, without intend it. it

would not have come to a crisis by this time, if she have not take I

to Paris.  it would have be a pity if the catastrophe of the

barricade have be all for nothing.'



Lord Ormersfield and Mary here break out in amazement at themselves,

for have hitherto be oblivious of the intelligence that have greet

they on their first arrival, when Frampton have inform they of Lord

Fitzjocelyn's wound and gallant conduct, and his father have listen to

the story like the fastening of a rivet in Miss Conway's chain, and

Mary with a flush of unselfish pride that Isabel have be teach to

value her hero.  they both claim the true and detailed account, as if

they have hitherto be defraud of it, and insist on hear what

have happen to he.



'I dare say you know well,' say Louis, lazily.  'I have hear so many

different account of late, that I really be begin to forget which

be the right one, and rather incline to the belief that Delaford

bring a rescue or two with his revolver, and carry we into a

fortress where my aunt have secure the window with feather-beds--'



'you have well make haste and tell, that the true edition may be

preserve,' say Mary, rally her spirit in her eagerness.



'I have begin to understand why there never yet have be an authentic

account of a great battle,' say Louis.  'life would make I coincide

with Sir Robert Walpole's judgment on history.  all I be clear about

be, that even a Red Republican be less red than he be paint; that

Isabel Conway be fit to visit the sentinel in a beleaguered castle--a

noble being-- but oh, Mary! do I not long sorely after you when it

come to the wound knight part of the affair!  I be more sure of that

than of anything else!'



Mary blush, but her tender heart be chiefly care to know how much

he have be hurt, and so the whole story be unfold by due

questioning; and the Earl have full and secret enjoyment of the signal

defeat of his dear sister-in-law, the one satisfaction on which every

one seem agree.



it be a melancholy certainty that Mary must go to Mrs. Frost, but the

Earl defer the moment by send the carriage with an entreaty that

she would come herself to fetch her guest.  Mary talk of write a

note; but the autumn sun shine cheerily on the step, and Louis wile

she into seat herself on the upper step, while he recline on the

low one, as they have so often be place when this be his only way

of enjoy the air.  the sky be clear, the air have the still calm of

autumn, the evergreen and the yellow-fringe elm do not stir a

leaf--only a large heavy yellow plane leaf now and then detach itself

by its own weight and silently float downward.  Mary sit, without

wish to utter a word to disturb the unwonted tranquillity, the rest

so precious after her month of sea-voyage, her journey, her

agitation.  but Louis want her seal of approval to all his past

doing, and soon begin on their inner and deep story, end with,

'tell I whether you think I be right, my own dear governess--'



'oh no, you must never call I that any more.'



'it be a name belong to my happy day.'



'it be only in play.  it reverse the order of thing.  I must look up

to you.'



'if you can!' say Louis, playfully, slip down to a low step.



a tear burst out as Mary say, 'Mamma say it must never be that way.'

then recover, she add, 'I beg your pardon, Louis; I be treat

it as earnest.  I think I be not quite myself to-day, I will go to my

room!'



'no, no, don't,' he say; 'I will not harass you with my gladness,

dearest.'  he step in-door, bring out a book, and when Mrs. Frost

arrive to congratulate and be congratulate, she find Mary still on

the step, gaze on without see the tree and flower, listen

without attend to the rich, soothe flow of Lope de Vega's

beautiful devotional sonnet, in majestic Spanish, in Louis's low,

sweet voice.









CHAPTER III.



mist.



  therefore thine eye through mist of many day

    shines bright; and beauty, like a linger rose,

  sit on thy cheek, and in thy laughter play;

    while wintry frost have fall on thy foe,

  and, like a vale that breathe the western sky,

  Thy heart be green, though summer be go by.

                                      F. TENNYSON.





Happy Aunt Kitty!--the centre, the confidante of so much love! perhaps

her enjoyment be the most keen and pure of all, because the most free

from self--the most devoid of those care for the morrow, which, after

beset middle life, often so desert old age as to render it as free

and fresh as childhood.  she have know the bad: she have be bear

through by heart-whole faith and love, she have see how often fretting

for the future be vain, and experience that anticipation be bad

than reality.  where there be true affection and sound trust, she

could not, would not, and do not fear for those she love.



James go backwards and forwards in stormy happiness.  he have come to

a comfortable understanding with old Mr. Mansell, who have treat he

with respect and cordiality from the first, give he to understand

that Isabel's further expectation only amount to a legacy of a

couple of thousand on his own death, and that meantime he have little

or no hope of help he in his profession.  he speak of Isabel's

expensive habit, and the danger of she find it difficult to adapt

herself to a small income; and though, of course, he might as well have

talk to the wind as to either of the lover, his remonstrance be so

evidently conscientious as not to be in the least offensive, and Mr.

Frost Dynevor be graciously pleased to accept he as a worthy relation.



all be smooth likewise with Lady Conway.  she and Mr. Mansell

outwardly appear utterly unconscious of each other's proceeding,

remain on the most civil term, and commit their comment and

explanation to Mrs. Mansell, who administer they accord to her

own goodnature, gossip humour, and side with whichever be

speak to she.  there be in Lady Conway much kindness and

good-humour, always ready to find satisfaction in what be inevitable,

and willing to see all at ease and happy around she--a quality which

she share with Louis, and which render she as warm and even

caress to 'our dear James' as if he have be the most welcome suitor

in the world; and she often sincerely congratulate herself on the

acquisition of a sensible gentleman to consult on business, and so

excellent a brother for Walter.  it be not falsehood, it be real

amiability; and it be an infinite comfort in the courtship, especially

the courtship of a Pendragon.  as to the two young sister, their

ecstasy be beyond description, only alloy by the grief of lose

Isabel, and this greatly mitigate by scheme of visit to Northwold.



the marriage be fix for the end of November, so as to give time for

a little tranquillity before the commencement of James's new duty.

as soon as this intelligence arrive, Mrs. Frost remove herself, Mary,

and her good into the House Beautiful, that no. 5 might undergo the

renovation which, poor thing! have be plan twenty year since,

when poor Henry's increase family and grow difficulty have

decide she that she could 'do without they' one year more.



'even should Miss Conway not like to keep house with the old woman,'

say she, by way of persuade herself she have no such expectation, 'it

be her duty to keep the place in repair.'



that question be soon at rest: Isabel would be but too happy to be

allow to share her home, and truly James would hardly have attach

himself to a woman who could not regard it as a privilege to be with

the noble old lady.  Clara be likewise to be take home; Isabel

undertake to complete her education, and school and tuition be both

to be remove from the contemplation of the happy girl, whose letter

have become an unintelligible rhapsody of joy and affection.



Isabel have three thousand pound of her own, which, with that valuable

freehold, Dynevor Terrace, James resolve should be settle on herself,

speak of it with such solemn importance as to provoke the gravity of

those accustomed to deal with large sum.  with the interest of her

fortune he mean to insure his life, that, as he tell Louis, with

gratified prudence, there might be no repetition of his own case, and

his family might never be a burden on any one.



the income of the school, with their former well-husband mean, be

affluence for the style to which he aspire; and his grandmother,

though her menus plaisir have once double her present revenue,

regard it as the same magnificent advance, and be ready to launch

into the extravagance of an additional servant, and of fit up the

long-disuse drawing-room, and the dining-parlour, hitherto call the

school-room, and kick and hack by thirty year of boy.  she and

Clara would betake themselves to their present little sitting-room, and

make the drawing-room pleasant and beautiful for the bride.



and in what a world of upholstery do not the dear old lady spend the

autumn month!  how surpassingly happy be Jane, and how communicative

about Cheveleigh! and how pleased and delighted in little Charlotte's

promotion!



and Charlotte!  she ought to have be happy, with her high wage and

emancipation from the more unpleasant work, with the expectation of one

whom she admire so enthusiastically as Miss Conway, and, above all,

with the long, open-hearted, affectionate letter, which Miss Ponsonby

have put into her hand with so kind a smile.  somehow, it make she do

nothing but cry; she feel unwilling to sit down and answer it; and, as

if it be out of perverseness, when she be in Mrs. Martha's very

house, and when there be so much to be do, she take the most violent

fit of novel-reading that have ever be know; and when engage in

work or clean alone, chant dismal ballad of the type of

'alonzo the brave and the fair Imogens,' till Mrs. Martha declare that

she be just as bad as an old dumbledore, and not worth half so much.



one day, however, Miss Ponsonby call she into her room, to tell she

that a parcel be go to Lima, in case she wish to send anything by

it.  Miss Ponsonby speak so kindly, and yet so delicately, and

Charlotte blush and falter, and feel that she must write now!



'I have be wish to tell you, Charlotte,' add Mary, kindly, 'how

much we like Mr. Madison.  there be some very undesirable people

among the passenger, who might easily have lead he astray; but the

captain and mate both speak to Lord Ormersfield in the high term of

his behaviour.  he never miss attend prayer on the Sundays; and,

from all I could see, I do fully believe that he be a sincerely good,

religion man; and, if he keep on as he have begin, I think you be

very happy in belong to he.'



Charlotte only curtsy and thank; but it be wonderful how those

kind, sympathize word blow off at once the whole mist of nonsense

and fancy.  Tom be the sound, good, religious man to whom her heart

and her troth be give; the other be no such thing, a mere

flatterer, and she have know it all along.  she would never think of

he again, and she be sure he would not think of she.  Truth have

dispel all the fancied sense of hypocrisy and double-dealing: she

sit down and write to Tom as if Delaford have never exist, and

forthwith return to be herself again, at least for the present.



Poor Mary! she might speak cheerfully, but her despatch be make up

with a trembling heart.  Louis and Mary miss the security and

felicity that seem so perfect with James and Isabel.  in the first

place, nothing could be fix without further letter, although the

Earl have try to persuade Mary that her father have virtually forfeit

all claim to her obedience, and that she ought to proceed as if in fact

an orphan, and secure herself from be harass by he, by hasten

her marriage.  of this she would not hear, and she be exceedingly

grateful to Louis for abstain from press she, as well as for

write to Mr. Ponsonby in term against which no exception could be

take.



till secure of his consent, she would not consider she engagement as

more than conditional, nor consent to its being mention to any one.

if Isabel know it, that be James's fault.   even the Faithfull sister

be keep in ignorance; and she trust thus to diminish the wrong that

she feel her secrecy to be do to Aunt Melicent, who be so much

vex and annoy at her return, that she dread exceedingly the

effect of the knowledge of her engagement.  Miss Ponsonby be convince

that the news have be exaggerated, and insist that but for Lord

Ormersfield's dislike, it would have be far sift; and she write

to Mary to urge she come to she to await the full tiding, instead of

delay among her father's avow enemy.



Mary settle this point by mention her promise to Mrs. Frost to

remain with she until her grandchild should be with she; and Miss

Ponsonby's correspondence cease after a dry, though still kind letter,

which do not make Mary more willing to bestow her confidence, but leave

her feeling in her honest heart as if she be deal insincerely by

Aunt Melicent.



the discretion and reserve render requisite by the concealment be

such as to be very torment even to so gentle a temper as that of

Louis, since they take from he all the privilege openly grant to

the cousin, and scarcely leave he those of the friend.  she, on whose

arm he have leant all last summer, would not now walk with he without

an escort, and, even with Mrs. Frost beside she, shrank from

Ormersfield like forbid ground.  her lively, frank tone of playful

command have pass away; nay, she almost shrink from his confidence,

withhold her counsel, and discourage his constant visit.  he could

not win from her one of her broad, fearless comment on his past

doing; and in his present business, the taking possession of

Inglewood, the choice of stock, and the appointment of a bailiff,

though she listen and sympathize, and answer question, she

volunteer no opinion, ahe express no wish, she would not come to

see.



Poor Louis be often mortify into doubt of his own ability to

interest or make she happy; but he be very patient.  if disappoint

one day, he be equally eager the next; he submit obediently to her

restriction, and be remorseful when he forget or transgress; and

they have real, soothe, comfort talk just often enough to be

tantalize, and yet to convince he that all the other unsatisfactory

meeting and parting be either his own fault, or that of some

untoward circumstance.



he see, as do the rest, that Mary's spirit have receive a shock not

easily to be recover.  the loss of her mother be weigh on she

more painfully than in the first excitement; and the step her father

have take, insult her mother, degrade himself, and rend away

her veil of filial honour, have exceedingly overwhelmed and depress

she; while sorrow hang upon she with the great permanence and

oppression from her strong self-control, and dislike to manifestation.



all this he well understand; and, reverent to her feeling, he lay

aside all trifling, and wait on her mood with the tender

watchfulness.  when she could bear it, they would dwell together on the

precious recollection of her mother; and sometimes she could even

speak of her father, and relate instance of his affection for herself,

and all his other redeem trait of character; most thankful to Louis

for accept he on her word, and never utter one word of he which

she could wish unsaid.



what Louis do not see, be that the very force of her own affection

be what alarm Mary, and cause her reserve.  to a mind use to

balance and regulation, any sensation so mighty and engrossing appear

wrong; and repress as her attachment have be, it be the more

absorbing now that he be all that be leave to she.  admiration,

honour, gratitude, old childish affection, and caress elder-sisterly

protection, all flow in one deep, strong current; but the very depth

make her diffident.  she could imagine the whole reciprocated, and she

fear to be importunate.  if the day be no well than a weary

turmoil, save when his voice be in her ear, his eye wistfully bend on

she, the more carefully do she restrain all expression of hope of

see he to-morrow, lest she should be exact and detain he from

project of his own.  if it be pride and delight to she to watch his

graceful, agile figure spring on horseback, she would keep herself from

the window, lest he should feel oppress by she pursue he; and when

she find her advice seek after as his law, she do not venture to

proffer it.  she be uncomfortable in find the rule commit to

she, and all the more because Lord Ormersfield, who have learn to talk

to she so openly that she sometimes think he confound she with her

mother, use in all his scheme to appear to take it for grant that

she should share with he in the managing, consult headship of the

house, leave Louis as something to be care for and pet like a

child, without a voice in their decision.  these conversation use to

make she almost jealous on Louis's account, and painfully recall some

of her mother's apprehension.



that be the real secret source of all her discomfort--namely, the

misgiving lest she have be too ready to follow the dictate of her own

heart.  would her mother have be satisfy?  have not her fondness and

her desolation prevail, where, for Louis's own sake, she should have

hold back!  every time she feel herself the elder in heart, every time

she fear to have disappoint he, every time she see that his

liveliness be repress by her mournfulness, she fear that she be

let he sacrifice himself.  and still more do she question she

conduct towards her father.  she have only gradually become aware of the

extent of the mutual aversion between he and the Earl; and Miss

Ponsonby's reproach awaken she to the fear that she have too lightly

give credence to hostile evidence.  her affection would fain have

justify he; and, forget the difficulty of personal

investigation in such a case, she blame herself for having omit

herself to question the confidential clerk, and having leave all to Lord

Ormersfield, who, cool and wary as he ordinarily be, would be less

likely to palliate Mr. Ponsonby's error than those of any other

person.  her heart grow sick as she count the week ere she could

hear from Lima.



none of her trouble be allow to interfere with Mrs. Frost's peace.

outwardly, she be cheerful and helpful; equable, though less lively.

those carpet and curtain, table and chair, which be the grand

topic at the House Beautiful, be neither neglect nor treat with

resign impatience.  Mary's taste, counsel, and needle do good

service; her hearty interest and consideration be give to the

often-turn volume of design for bedstead, sofa, and

window-curtain; and Miss Mercy herself have hardly so many resource

for make old furniture new.  many of her happy half-hour with

Louis be spend as she sew the stiff slippery chintz, and he hold

the curtain ring, while Aunt Catharine go to inspect the workman,

and many a time be her care forget, and her active spirit

resume, while Louis act carpenter under her direction, and

rectify error of the workman.  it might not be poetical, but the

french sky-blue paper, cover with silvery fern-leave, that Louis

take such pain to procure, and the china door-handle that he bring

over in his pocket, and the great map which Mary paste over the

obstinate spot of damp in the vestibule, be the occasion of the

great blitheness and merriment that they share together.  much do

they enjoy the prediction that James would not know his own house;

greatly do they delight in sow surprise, and in obtain Aunt

Catharine's never-fail start of well-pleased astonishment.  each

wedding present be an event;--Mr. Mansell's piano, which disconcert

all previous design; Lord Ormersfield's handsome plate; and many a

minor gift from old scholar, delight to find an occasion when an

offering would not be an offence.  even Mr. Calcott give a valuable

inkstand, in which Mrs. Frost and Louis beheld something of forgiveness.



Isabel have express a wish that Mary should be one of her bridesmaid.

a wedding be not the scene which poor Mary wish to witness at

present; but she see Louis bent on have she with he, and would not

vex he by reluctance.  he have also prevail on his father to be

present, though the Earl be much afraid of establish a precedent,

and be ask to act the part of father on future contingency.

there be only one bride, as he tell Louis, whom he could ever wish to

give away.  however, that trouble be spare he by Mr. Mansell; but

still Louis would not let he off, on the plea that James's side of the

house should make as impose a demonstration as possible.



Mrs. Frost be less manageable.  though warmly invite by the Conways,

and fondly entreat by her grandson, she shake her head, and say she

be past those thing, and that the old mother always stay at home to

cook the wedding dinner.  she should hear all when Clara come home the

next day, and should be ready for the happy pair when they would return

for Christmas, after a brief stay at Thornton Conway, which Isabel

wish James to see, that he might share in all her old association.



all the rest of the party journey to London on a November day; and,

in gaslight and gloom, they deposit Mary at her aunt's house in

Bryanston Square.



Gaslight be the staple of Hymen's torch the next morning.  London be

under one of the fog, of which it be popularly say you may cut they

with a knife.  the church be in dim twilight; the bride and bridegroom

loom through the haze, and the indistinctness make Clara's fine tall

figure appear quite majestic above the head of the other bridesmaid.



the breakfast be by lamp-light, and the mist look lurid and grim

over the white cake, and no one talk of anything but the comparative

density of fog; and Mr. Mansell's asthma have come on, and his speech

be devolve upon Lord Ormersfield, to whom Louis have imprudently

promise exemption.



what be bad, Lady Conway have pair they off in the order of

precedence; and Louis be a victim to two dowager, between whom he

could neither see nor speak to Mary.  he be the more concerned,

because he have think she look depressed and avoid his eye.



he try to believe this caution, but he think she be also elude

his father, and her whole air give he a vague uneasiness.  the whole

party be to dine with Lady Conway; and, trust in the meantime to

discover what be on her spirit, he try to resign himself to the

order of the day, without a farth glimpse of she.



when the married pair take leave, Walter give his sister a great hug,

but have no perception of his office of hand she downstair; and it

be Fitzjocelyn who give she his arm, and put she into the carriage,

with an augury that the weather would be beautiful when once they have

leave the fog in London.



she smile dreamily, and repeat, 'beautiful,' as though all be so

beautiful already to she that she do not so much as perceive the fog.



James press his hand, say, 'I be glad you be to be the one to be

happy next.'



'you do not look so,' say Clara, earnestly.



the two sister have come partly downstairs, but their London habit have

restrain they from follow to the street-door, as Clara have do;

and now they have rush up again, while Clara, with one foot on the

staircase, look in her cousin's face, as he try to smile in answer,

and repeat, 'Louis, I hope you be quite happy.'



'I be,' say Louis, quickly.



'then why do you look so grave and uneasy?'



'Louis!' say an entreating voice above, and there stand Mary--'Pray

say nothing, but call a cab for I, please.  no, I be not ill--indeed,

I be not--but I cannot stay!'



'you look ill!  it have be too much for you!  Clara, take she--let she

lie down quietly,' cry Louis, spring to her side.



'oh no, thank you-no,' say Mary, decidedly, though very low; 'I tell

Lady Conway that I could not stay.  I settle it with Aunt Melicent.'



'that aunt of yours--'



'hush!  no, it be for my own sake--my own doing.  I cannot bear it any

long!  please let I go!'



'then I will take you.  I see the brougham wait.  we will go quietly

together.'



'no, that must not be.'



'I be thoughtless in urge you to come.  the turmoil have be too

much.  my poor Mary!  that be what come of do what I like instead

of what you like.  why don't you always have your own way?  let I

come; nay, if you will not, at least let Clara go with you, and come

back.'



Mary rouse herself at last to speak, as she move downstairs--'You

need not think of I; there be nothing the matter with I.  I promise

Aunt Melicent to come home.  she be very kind--it be not that.'



'you must not tell I not to think.  I shall come to inquire.  I shall

be with you the first thing tomorrow.'



'yes, you must come to-morrow,' say Mary, in a tone he could not

interpret, and a tight linger grasp on his hand, as he put she into

his father's carriage.



he stand hesitate for a moment as it drive off; then, instead of

enter the house, walk off quickly in the same direction.



Clara have stand all the time like a statue on the stair, wait to

see if she be want, and gaze intently, with her finger clasp.

when both be go she draw a long breath, and nod with her head,

whisper to herself, in a grave and critical voice--'That be love!'



she do not see Fitzjocelyn again till nearly dinner-time; and, as he

catch her anxious interrogating eye, he come to she and say, very

low, 'I be not let in; Miss Ponsonby be engage.  Miss Mary lie

down--I believe they never tell she I be there.'



'it be all that aunt--horrid woman!'



'don't talk of it now.  I _will_ see she to-morrow.'



Clara grieve for he whenever she see he call on to exert himself

to talk; and she even guard he from the sally of his young

cousin.  once, when much music and talk be go on, he come and sit

by she, and make she tell he how fondly and affectionately she have

part with her schoolfellow; and how some of her old foe have become,

as she hope, friend for life; but she see his eye fix and absent

even while she speak, and she leave off suddenly.  'go on,' he say, 'I

like to hear;' and with a manifest effort he bend his mind to attend.



'oh!' think Clara, as she go up that night--'why will the day one

most expect to be happy turn out so much otherwise?  however, he will

manage to tell I all about it when he and his father take I home

to-morrow.'









CHAPTER IV.



OUTWARD BOUND.



  the voice which I do more esteem

    than music in her sweetest key--

  those eye which unto I do seem

    more comfortable than the day--

  those now by I, as they have be,

  shall never more be hear or see.

                              GEORGE WITHER.





in suspense and impatience, Fitzjocelyn await the end of his father's

breakfast, that he might hasten to learn what ail Mary. the post come

in, vex he at first merely as an additional delay, but presently a

sound of dissatisfaction attract his notice to the foreign air of two

envelope which have be forward from home.



'Hem!' say the Earl, gravely, 'I be afraid this fellow Ponsonby will

give we some trouble.'



'then Mary have hear from he!' cry Louis.  'she be keep it from

I, not to spoil the day.  I must go to she this moment--'but pausing

again, 'what be it?  he cannot have have my letter!'



'no, but he seem to have anticipate it.  puff up as they be about

these speculation, he imagine I to have bring Mary home for no

purpose but to repair our fortune; and inform I that, in the event

of your marriage, she will receive not a farthing beyond her mother's

settlement.  I be much oblige!  it be all I ever think you would

receive; and but for I, it would have be in the bottom of some mine

long ago!  do you wish to see what he say?'



Louis catch up the missive.  it be the letter of a very angry man,

too violent to retain the cold formality which he try to assume. 'he

be beholden to his lordship for his solicitude about his daughter.  it

be of a piece with other assistance formerly render to he in his

domestic arrangement, for which he be equally oblige.  he be happy

to inform his lordship that, in this instance, his precaution have be

uncalled for; and refer he to a letter which he would receive from

Mr. Dynevor by the same mail, for an explanation of the circumstance

to which he refer.  he have be inform, by undoubted authority,

that Lord Fitzjocelyn have do his daughter the honour of solicit

her hand.  it might console his lordship to learn that, should the

union take place, the whole of his property would be secure to Mrs.

Ponsonby, and his daughter's sole fortune would be that which she

inherit by her mother's marriage settlement.  possibly this

intelligence might lead to a cessation of these flattering attention.'



'Mrs. Ponsonby! he can mention she in the same sentence with Mary's

mother!' say the Earl.



Louis turn pale as he read, and scarcely breathe as he look up at

his father, dread that he might so resent the studied affront as to

wish to break off the connexion, and that he might have he likewise to

contend with; but on that score he be set at rest.  the Earl reply

to his exclamation of angry dismay, 'it be little more than I look

for.  it be not the first letter I have have from he. I find he have

some just cause for offence.  the marriage be less disgraceful than I

have be lead to believe.  here be Oliver Dynevor's testimony.'



Oliver Dynevor's be a succinct business-like letter, certify his

cousin that he have be mistake in his view of the marriage.  Dona

Rosita de Guzman be an orphan of a very respectable family, who have

come to spend the year before her intend noviciate at the house of an

uncle.  she be very young, and Mr. Dynevor believe that the marriage

have be hasten by her relation make she feel herself unwelcome,

and her own reluctance to return to her convent, and that she might not

be aware how very recently Mr. Ponsonby have become a widower.  for his

own part, he be little use to lady' society, and could form no

judgment of the bride; but he could assure Lord Ormersfield that she

have be guilty of no impropriety; she be visit by every one; and

that there be no reason against Mary Ponsonby associate with she.



'what could the clerk be think of?' exclaim Louis.



'my first impression be not take from the clerk.  what I hear first,

and in the strong term, be from the captain of a ship at

Valparaiso.  in fact, it be in the mouth of all who have know the

family.  Robson neither confirm nor contradict, and give I the

notion of withholding much from regard for his employer.  he lament

the precipitation, but seem willing to make excuse.  he distinctly

say, he would not take it on himself to recommend Miss Ponsonby's

continue her journey.  he be right.  if I have know all this, I

should still have bring her home.  I must write an apology, as far as

her character be concern; but, be that as it may, the marriage be

atrocious--an insult--a  disgrace!  he could not have wait six

weeks--'



'but I must go to Mary!' cry Louis, as though reproach himself for

the delay.  'oh! that she should have force herself to that wedding,

and spare I!'



'I be come with you,' say the Earl.  'she will require my personal

assurance that all this make no difference to I.'



'I be more afraid of the difference it may make to she,' say Louis.

'you have never believe how fond she be of her father.'



on arrive, they be usher into the room where Miss Ponsonby be at

breakfast, and a cup of tea and untasted roll show where her niece

have be.  she receive they with stiff, upright chillness; and to

their hope that Mary be not unwell, replied--'Not very well.  she have

be over-fatigue yesterday, and have follow her advice in go to

lie down.'



Louis begin to imagine a determination to exclude he, and be eagerly

begin to say that she have ask he to come that morning--could she

not see he? when the lady continue, with the same severity--'Until

yesterday, I be not aware how much concern Lord Fitzjocelyn have take

in what relate to my niece.'



at that moment, when Louis's face be crimson with confusion and

impatience, the door be softly push ajar, and he hear himself

call in low, hoarse tone.  Miss Ponsonby be rise with an air of

vex surprise, but he never see she, and, hastily cross the room,

he shut the door behind he, and follow the form that flit up the

stair so fast, that he do not come up with she till she have enter

the drawing-room, and stand lean against a chair to gather breath.

she be very pale, and her eye look as if she have cry all night,

but she control her voice to say, 'I could not bear that you should

hear it from Aunt Melicent.'



'we have letter this morning, dearest.  always think for I!  but I

must think for you.  you can hardly stand--'



he would have support she to the sofa, but she shrink from he; and,

lean more heavily on the chair, said--'Do you not know, Louis, all

that must be at an end?'



'I know no such thing.  my father be here on purpose to assure you that

it make not the slight difference to he.'



'your!  yes!  but oh, Louis!' with a voice that, in its faintness and

steadiness, have a sound of anguish--'only think what I allow he to

make I do!  to insult my father and his choice!  it be a mistake, I

know,' she continue, fear to be unjust and to grieve Louis; 'but a

most dreadful one!'



'he say he should have bring you home all the same--' begin Louis.

'Mary, you must sit down!' he cry, interrupt himself to come

nearer; and she obey, sink into the chair.  'what a state you be

in!  how could you go through yesterday?  how could you be distressed,

and not let I know?'



'I could not spoil their wedding-day, that we have wish for so long.'



'then you have the letter?'



'in the morning.  oh, that I have examine far!  oh, that I have

never come home!'



'Mary! I cannot hear you say so.'



'you would have be spare all this.  you be do very well without

I--as you will--'



he cry out with deprecate horror.



'Louis!' she say, imploringly.  'oh, Louis! do not make it hard for

I to do right.'



'why--what?  I don't understand!  your father have not so much as hear

how we stand together.  he cannot be desire you to give I up.'



'he--he forbid I to enter on anything of the sort with you.  I don't

know what make he think it possible, but he do.  And--' again Mary

wait for the power of utterance, 'he order I to come out with Mrs.

Willis, in the Valdivia, and it sail on the 12th of December!'



'but Mary, Mary! you cannot be bind by this.  it be only fair towards

he, towards all of we, to give he time to answer our letter.'



Mary shake her head.  'the only condition, he say, on which he could

allow I to remain, would be if I be engage to James Frost.'



'too late for that, certainly,' say Louis; and the smile be a relief

to both.  'at any rate, it show that he can spare you.  only give he

time.  when he have my father's explanation--and my father be certain to

be so concerned at having cast any imputation on a lady. his first

thought be to apologize--'



'that be not all!  I remember now that dear mamma always say she do

not know whether he would consent.  oh! how weak I be ever to listen--'



'no, Mary, that must not be say.  it be my presumptuous, inveterate

folly that prevent you from trust my affection when she might have

help we.'



'I don't know.  it would have cause her anxiety and distress when she

be in no state for they.  I don't think it do,' say Mary,

consider; 'I don't think she ever know how much I care.'



the admission could only do Louis's heart good, and he recur to his

argument that her father could be persuade by such a letter as he

feel it in he to write.



'you do not know all,' say Mary.  'I could not show you his letter;

but, from it and from my aunt, I well understand what impression he

have of you all, and how hopeless it be.'



'tell I!'



she could not help give herself the relief, when that most loving,

sympathize face be plead with she to let he comfort she.  she

know there be no fiery nor rancorous temper to take umbrage, and it

be good for he to know the completeness of the death-blow.



'oh, Louis! he fancy that my dear mother's fondness for her own

family destroy his domestic peace.  he say their pride and narrow

notion poison--yes, that be the word--poison her mind against he;

and that be the reason he insist on my being bring up here, and

keep from you all.'



'but I don't understand why he let you come straight home to we, and

live in Dynevor Terrace?'



'then he be really sorry mamma be so ill; and--and for all that be

past; I be sure he feel it be the last parting, and only wish to do

anything that could make up to she.  he freely give her leave to go

wherever she please, and say not a word against Northwold.  it be

one of her great comfort that he never seem in the least vex at

anything she have do since we go home.  besides, my aunt say that

he and Mr. Dynevor have some plan about James and I.'



'he will have that out of his head.  he will come to reason.  Fond of

you, and sorry for the past, he will listen.  no wonder he be in a

passion; but just imagine what it would be to heed half Jem Frost say

when he be well work up!'



'Papa be not like James,' say Mary; 'thing go deeply with he.  he

never forget!  I shall never forgive myself for not having speak to

Robson!  I know his manner, seem to assent and never commit

himself, and I ought to have go through anything rather than have

take such an accusation for grant.'



to hinder his pleading against her self-conviction, she re-open she

letter to prove the cruelty of the injustice.  Mr. Ponsonby profess

to have be unwilling to enter so speedily on the new tie; but to have

be compel, by the specie of persecution which be exercise on

Rosita, in order to make her return to her nunnery.  he dwelt on her

timid affection and simplicity, and her exceed mortification at the

slur which Mary have be induce to cast upon she; though, he say, her

innocent mind could not comprehend the full extent of the injury; since

the step his daughter have take would, when know, seriously affect the

lady's reception into society, in a manner only to be repair by

Mary's immediately join they at Lima.  he peremptorily indicate the

ship and the escort--a merchant's wife, well know to she and charge

she, on her duty, as the only proof of obedience or affection which

could remedy the past, to allow no influence nor consideration whatever

to detain she.  'you see?' say Mary.



'I see!' be the answer.  'Mary, you be right, you must go.'



the word restore her confiding look, and her face lose almost all the

restless wretchedness which have so transform it.  'thank you,' she

say, with a long breath; 'I know you would see it so.'



'it will be a very pretty new style of wedding tour.  Andes for Alps!

no, Mary, you need not suspect I of trifle now!  I really mean it,

and, seriously, our go in that way would set this Rosita straight

with society much more handsomely and effectually.  don't doubt my

father--I will fetch he.'



'stop, Louis!  you forget!  do I not tell you that he expressly warn

I against you?  he must have hear of what happen before: he say I

have prudence once to withstand, and he trust to my spirit and

discretion to--' Mary stop short of the phrase before her eye--to

resist the interested solicitation of necessitous nobility, and the

allurement of a beggarly coronet.  'no,' she conclude; 'he say that

you be the last person whom he could think of allow I to accept.'

she hide her face in her hand, and her voice die away.



'happily that be do,' say Louis, not yet disconcert; 'but if you

go, as I own you must, it shall be with a letter of mine, explain

all.  you will plead for I--I think you will, and when he be satisfied

that we be no rebel, then the first ship that sail for Peru--say

that will do, Mary.'



'no, Louis, I know my father.'  she rouse herself and sit upright,

speak resolutely, but not dare to look at him--'I make up my mind

last night.  it be weak and selfish in I to enter into this

engagement, and it must be break off.  you must be leave free--not

bind for year and year.'



'oh, Mary!  Mary! this be too much.  I deserve distrust by my wretched

folly and fickleness last year, but I do not know what you be to I

then--my most precious one!  can you not trust I!  do you not know how

I would wait?'



'you would wait,' say poor Mary, strive with choke tear, 'and be

sorry you have wait.'



'be you talk madness, Mary?  I should live for the moment to

compensate for all.'



'you would waste your good year, and when the time come, you would

still be young, and I grow into an old careworn woman.  you would find

you have wait for what be nothing worth!'



'how can you talk so!' cry Louis, wound, 'when you know that to

cherish and make up to you would be my dearest, fond wish!  no,

don't shake your head!  you know it be not a young rose and lily beauty

that I love,--it be the honest, earnest glance in my Mary's eye, the

rest, and trust, and peace, whenever I do but come near she.  Time

cann't take that away!'



'pray,' say Mary, feebly, 'don't let we discuss it now.  I know it be

right.  I be determined to say it to-day, that the bad might be

over, but I cann't argue, nor bear your kindness now.  please let it

wait.'



'yes, let it wait.  it be depression.  you will see it in a true light

when you have recover the shock, and don't fancy all must be give up

together.  lie down and rest; I be sure you have be awake all night.'



'I may rest now I have tell you, and see you not angry with poor papa,

nor with I.  oh! Louis--the gratitude to you, the weight off my mind!'



'I don't think any one could help take the same view,' say Louis.

'it seem to I one of the case where the immediate duty be the more

clear because it be so very painful.  Mary, I think that you be

commit your way unto the Lord, and you know 'he shall bring it to

pass.''



as he speak there be a tap at the door, and Miss Ponsonby, stiffly

entering, say, 'excuse my interruption, but I hope Lord Fitzjocelyn

will be considerate enough not to harass you any long with

solicitation to act against your conscience.'



'he be not persuade I,' say Mary, turn towards her aunt a face

which, through all her dejection, prove her peace in his support and

approval, 'he be help I.'



'yes,' say Louis to the astonished aunt; 'since I have hear the true

state of the case, I have be convince that there be no choice for

she but to go out, to repair the injustice so unfortunately do to

this poor lady.  it be a noble resolution, and I perfectly concur with

she.'



'I be glad you think so properly, sir,' return Miss Ponsonby. 'Lord

Ormersfield seem quite of another opinion.  he be desirous of see

you, Mary; but I have be tell he I could permit no more

interview to-day.'



'oh no,' say Mary, put her hand to her head, as if it could bear

no more; 'not to-day!   Louis, tell he how it be.  make he forgive

I; but do not let I see he yet.'



'you shall see no one,' say Louis, tenderly; 'you shall rest. There--'

and, as if he have the sole right to she, he arrange the cushion,

place she on the sofa, and hang over she to chafe her hand, and bathe

her forehead with eau de Cologne; while, as he detect sign of hasty

preparation about the room, he add, 'don't trouble yourself with

your arrangement; I will see about all I can to help you.  only rest,

and cure your head.'



'say that one thing to I again,' whisper Mary, ere let his hand

go.



again he murmur the word, 'commit thy way unto the Lord, and he

shall bring it to pass.'



then Mary feel her hand press to his lip, but she would not unclose

her burn eye; she would fain sleep beneath the impress of that

spell of patient confidence.



the gentle authority of his manner have deprive Miss Ponsonby of all

notion of interfere.  this 'odious, frivolous young man of fashion,'

so entirely disconcert her idea of ardent lover, or of

self-interested puppy, that she gaze at he, surprised and soften;

and when he look at she anxiously, to judge whether Mary would find

in she a kind comforter, her eye be full of tear, and she say as

they leave the room, 'it must be a great relief to my poor Mary that you

see it so sensibly.  she have be suffer much in anticipation of

this meeting.'



'her unselfishness go to one's heart!' say Louis, almost overcome.

'if she would but have spare herself yesterday!'



'ah! she say she could not bear that you should be pain on your

friend's wedding-day.  I be much comfort to find that you appreciate

the effort.'



this be not what Miss Ponsonby have intend to say, but there be

something about the young man that touch she exceedingly; even when

fresh from a very civil and decorous combat with his father, and a

rip-up of all the ancient grievance of the married life of their

two relation, render wider than ever the breach between the house

of Ponsonby and Fitzjocelyn.



Lord Ormersfield come forward to learn whether he might see Mary, and

be meet by assurance that she must be keep as quiet as possible; upon

which he take leave, make a stately bend of the head, while Louis

shake Miss Ponsonby's hand, and say he should come to the door to

inquire before the day be over.



'I never see she so break down,' he say, in answer to his father's

compassionate but indignant exclamation as they walk home. 'yesterday

be a terrible strain on she.'



'I wish we have never bring she here,' say Lord Ormersfield.  'the

aunt be your enemy, as she always be that of Mary's mother.  she

nearly avow that she set her brother on make this premature

prohibition.'



'I do not think she be unkind to Mary,' say Louis; 'I could be almost

glad that the dear Aunt Kitty be spare all this worry.  it would make

she so very miserable.'



'her influence would be in your favour, whereas this woman be perfectly

unreasonable.  she justify her brother in everything, and be actually

work on that poor girl's scruple of conscience to send she out by

this ship.'



'Nay,' say Louis, 'after hear her father's letter, I do not see

that it be possible for she to do otherwise.'



Lord Ormersfield hastily turn to look at his son's countenance,--it

be flushed and melancholy, but fully in earnest; nevertheless the Earl

would not believe his ear, and make a sound as if he have miss the

word.



'I be grieve enough to say so,' repeat Louis; 'but, as he put it, I

do not see how Mary can refuse to obey he.'



'I declare, Fitzjocelyn,' exclaim his father, with some anger, 'any

one who take the trouble, may talk you into anything imaginable!'



'not into believe her wrong.'



'I do not think you so weak!' continue his father.  'it be the very

case where a woman's exaggerated notion of right may be work on to

do her infinite harm!  they become quite ridiculous without some one to

show that such thing may be carry too far!  I must say, I do expect

strength of mind and common sense for your own interest. I esteem it a

mere matter of duty to put an end to such nonsense.'



'my dear father,' say Louis, 'it be Mary and her mother who first

teach I my own obligation.  I should never dare to interfere with

any one's filial duty--above all, where my own happiness be so deeply

concern.'



'your!  I be not talk of your.  what be to become of Mary with

such a man as that? and this spanish woman, who, if she do not

deserve all that have be say of she, no doubt soon will?--no

education, no principle, break out of her convent!  and you let

yourself be draw into call it Mary's duty to run into such company

as that!  you be not fit to protect she.'



'from all I have hear of Mr. Ponsonby, I be convinced he have too much

regard for his daughter to summon she into any improper society. I do

not hear that he have be to blame as a father.  I wish I could see it

as you do; but not only do I know that Mary could not have an instant's

peace under the sense of his displeasure, but it seem to I that this

be one of the express command which could not be disobey without

set aside the law of Heaven.  if I give my voice against it, I

should fear to bring on we a curse, and not a blessing.'



'Fitzjocelyn, I always know how it would be if you take to be one of

those very good people.  nothing be so weak, and yet so unmanageable.

any rational being would look on it as a duty to rescue she from such a

man as that; but that be too ordinary a virtue for you.  you must go

high.'



Louis make no answer.  never have his father pain he so much, and he

could ill brook additional suffering.



'however,' say the Earl, recover, 'I shall see she.  I shall put

the matter in a just light.  she be a sensible girl, and will

understand I when she have recover the shock.  on one head I shall

give warning.  she must choose between we and her father.  if she

persist in go out to join this establishment, I will have your

engagement give up.'



'Father! father! you would not be so cruel!'



'I know what I be say.  be I to allow you to be encumber all the

time she be on the other side of the world, wait Ponsonby's

pleasure, to come home at last, in ten or fifteen year' time, worry

and fret to death, like her poor mother?  no, Louis, it must be now

or never.'



'you be only say what I would not hear from she.  she have be

insist on break off, and all my hope be in you.'



'she have?  that be like she!  the only reasonable thing I have hear

yet.'



'then you will not help I?  you, who I think love she like your own

daughter, and wish for nothing so much!'



'so I might; but that be a different thing from allow you to wear

out your life in a hopeless engagement.  if she cast off her family,

nothing could be well, otherwise, I would never connect you with

they.'



it do not occur to his lordship that he be strain pretty hard the

filial duty of his own son, while he be argue that Mary should snap

asunder the same towards her father.



the fresh discomfiture make poor Louis feel utterly dejected and almost

hopeless, but lest silence should seem to consent, he say, 'when you

see Mary, you will be willing for I to do anything rather than lose

what be so dear and so noble.'



'yes, I will see Mary.  we will settle it between we, and have it right

yet; but we must give she to-day to think it over, and get over the

first shock.  when she have have a little time for reflection, a few cool

argument from I will bring she to reason.'



so it be all to be settle over Louis's passive head; and thus

satisfied, his father, who be exceedingly sorry for he, forget his

anger, and offer to go home alone as Clara's escort, promise to

return on the Monday, to bring the full force of his remonstrance to

bear down Mary's scruple.



Lord Ormersfield believe Clara too much of a child to have any idea

on what be pass; and have it depend on he, she must have go

home in an agony of ignorance on the cause of her cousin's trouble, but

Louis come with they to the station, and contrive to say to she while

walk up and down the platform, 'her father be bitter against I.  he

have send for she, and she be go!'



Clara look mutely in his face, with a sort of inquire dismay.



'you'll hear all about it when my father have tell Aunt Kitty,' say

Louis.  'Clara,'--he pause, and speak lower--'tell she I see what be

right now; tell she to--to pray for I, that I may not be talk into

tamper with my conscience or with her.  don't let it dwell on you

or on my aunt,' he add, cheerfully.  'no, it willn't; you will be

think of Jem and Isabel.'  and as his father come up, his last word

be, in his own bright tone, 'tell granny from I that giraffe ought

always to be see by gaslight.'



Clara's countenance return he a look of sorrowful reproach, for

think she capable of be amuse when he be in distress; and she

sit in silent musing all the way home--ponder over his word,

speculate on his future, wonder what Mary feel, and become blunt

and almost angry, when her grave escort in the opposite corner

consult civility by address some indifferent remark to she, as if,

she say to herself, 'she be no well than a stuff giraffe, and

know and care nothing about anybody!'



he might have guess that she understand something by the sudden way

in which she curtail her grandmother's rapturous and affectionate

inquiry about the wedding, run upstairs on the plea of take off her

bonnet, and appear no more till he have go home; when, come down,

she find granny, with tearful eye, lament that Mr. Ponsonby be so

harsh and unkind, and fully possess with the rational view which she

nephew have be impress on she.



'ha!' say Clara, 'that be what Louis mean.  I'll tell you what,

granny, Lord Ormersfield never know in his life what be right, half as

well as Louis do.  I wish he would let he alone.  if Mary be good

enough for he, she will go out and wait till her father come round.

if she be not, she willn't; and Lord Ormersfield have no business to tease

she.'



'then you would like she to go out?' say Mrs. Frost.



'I like anything that make Louis happy.  I think it would have be

delightful to have he marry--one could be so much more at

Ormersfield, and Mary would be so nice; but as to their being

over-persuade, and think themselves half wrong! why, they would

never be happy in their life; and Louis would be always half-asleep or

half mad, to save himself the trouble of thinking.  but he'll never do

it!'



on the Saturday morning Mary's healthy and vigorous spirit have quite

resume its tone.  the bad be over when she have inflict the stroke

on Louis, and see he ready to support instead of add to her

distress.  he find her pale and sorrowful, but calm, collect, and

ready for exertion.  by tacit consent, they avoid all discussion of

the term on which they be to stand.  greatly touch by her

consideration for he on the wedding-day, he would not torture she with

pleading, and be only too grateful for every service that he be

allow to render she without protest, as still her chief and most

natural dependence.



she do not scruple to allow he to assist she; she understand the

gratification to he, and it be only too sweet to she to be still his

object.  she could trust he not to presume, his approval make she

almost happy; and yet it be hard that his very patience and

acquiescence should endear he so much as to render the parting so much

the more painful.  the day be spend in business.  he facilitate much

that would have be arduous for two solitary woman, and do little all

day but go about for Mary, fulfil the commission which her father

have send home; and though he do it with a sore heart, it be still a

privilege to be at work for Mary.



Rigid as Miss Ponsonby be, she begin to be touch.  there be a doubt

as to his admission when he come on Sunday morning--'Mistress see no

one on Sunday,' but when his name be carry in, Miss Ponsonby could

not withstand Mary's face.  she take care to tell he her rule; but

that, consider the circumstance, she have make an exception in his

favour, on the understanding that nothing be to break in upon the

observance of the Sabbath.



Louis bend his head, with the heartfelt answer that he be but too glad

to be permit to go to church once more with Mary.



Aunt Melicent's Sunday be not quite their own Sunday, but all that

they could desire be to be quietly together, and restrict from all

those agitate topic and arrangement.  it be a day of rest, and

they value it accordingly.  in fact, Miss Ponsonby find the young

Lord so good and inoffensive, that she break her morning's resolution,

invite he to partake of the cold dinner, let he go to church with

they again in the evening, and remain to tea; and when he take leave,

she express such surprised admiration at his having come and go on

his own foot, his church-going, and his conduct generally, that Mary

could not help suspect that her good aunt have suppose that he have

never hear of the Fourth Commandment.



Miss Ponsonby be one of the many good woman give to hard judgment on

slight ground, and to sudden reaction still more violent; and the

sight of Lord Fitzjocelyn spend a quiet, respectable Sunday, have

such an effect on she, that she transgress her own mandate, and

broach 'the distressing subject.'



'Mary, my dear, I suppose this young gentleman be an improved

character?'



'he be always improve,' say Mary.



'I mean, that an important change must have take place since I

understand you to say you have refuse he.  I think you act most

properly then; and, as I see he now, I think you equally right in

accept he.'



'he be very much what he be now,' say Mary.



'then it be from no doubt of his be a serious character?'



'none whatever,' say Mary, emphatically.



'well, my dear, I must confess his appearance, his family, and your

refusal, mislead I.  I fear I do he great injustice.'



a silence, and then Miss Ponsonby say, 'after all, my dear, though I

think quite otherwise at first, I do believe that, consider what

the youth be, and how much attach he seem, you might safely continue

the engagement.'



Mary's heart glow to her aunt for having be thus conquer by

Louis--she who, three night back, have be so severely incredulous, so

deeply disappointed in her niece for having be delude into endurance

of he.  but her resolution be fix.  'it would not be right,' she

say; 'his father would not allow it.  there be so little chance of

papa's relenting, or of my come home, that it would be wrong to keep

he in suspense.  he have well turn his thought elsewhere while he be

young enough to begin again.'



'it might save he from marry some mere fine lady.'



'that will never be, whatever woman he choose will--' she could not go

on, but presently clear her voice--'No; I should like to leave he

quite free.  I be less his choice than his father's; and, though I

think we should have be very happy, it do not seem to be the

leading of Heaven.  I be so far his inferior in cleverness, and

everything attractive, and have be make so like his eld sister,

that it might not have be good for he.  I want he to feel that, in

begin afresh, he be do I no injury; and then in time, whenever

I come home, it may be such a friendship as there be between our

elder.  that be what I try to look forward to,--no, I don't think I

look forward to anything.  good night, Aunt Melicent--I be so glad you

like he!'



in this mind Mary meet Lord Ormersfield.  the delay have be an

advantage, for he be less irritated, and she have regain

self-possession.  her passage have be take, and this be an argument

that tell on the Earl, though he refuse to call it irrevocable.  he

find that there be no staggering she on the score of the life that

await she; she know more on that subject than he do, have confidence

in her father, and no dread of Rosita; and she be too much ashamed and

grieve at the former effect of his persuasion to attend to any more

of a like description.  he find her sense of duty more stubborn than

he have anticipate, and soon have no more to say. she might carry it too

far; but the principle be sound, and a father could not well

controvert it.  he have design the rupture with Louis as a penalty to

drive she into his measure; but he could not so propound it, and be

wonder how to bring it in, when Mary relieve he by begin

herself, and state the ground with such sensible, unselfish, almost

motherly care of Louis's happiness, that he be more unwilling than

ever to let he resign she, and be on the point of beg she to

re-consider, and let Louis wait for ever rather than lose she.  but he

know they ought not to be bind, under such uncertainty, and his

conviction be too strong to give way to emotion.  he thank she, and

praise she with unwonted agitation, and regret more than ever; and

so they close the conference by decide that, unless Mr. Ponsonby

should be induce to relent by his daughter's representation on her

arrival, Mary and Louis must consider themselves as mutually release.



that loophole--forlorn, most forlorn hope, as they know it to be--be

an infinite solace to the young people, by spare they a formal

parting, and permit they still to feel that they belong to each

other.  if he begin declare that nothing would ever make he feel

disconnected with Mary, he be tell that it be not time to think of

that, and they must not waste their time.  and once Mary remind he

how much bad it would be if they have be separate by a quarrel.

'anger might give one spirit,' he say, smile mournfully.



'at the time; but think what it would be not to be able to remember

happy time without remorse.'



'then you do mean to recollect, Mary?'



'I trust to bring myself to remember rightly and wisely.  I shall try

to set it for a reward for myself to cure I of repining,' say Mary,

look into his face, as if the remembrance of it must bring

cheerfulness and refreshment.



'and when shall I not think, Mary!  when I leave off work, I shall want

you for a companion; when I go to work, the thought must stir I up.

your judgment must try my own.'



'oh, hush, Louis! this be not good.  be yourself, and be more than

yourself, and only think of the past as a time when we have a great deal

of pleasantness, and you do I much good.'



'do I?'



'yes; I see it now I be with Aunt Melicent.  you put so many more

thought in my head, and show I that so much more be good and

wholesome than I use to fancy.  dear mamma once say you be

educate I; and I hope to go on, and not let your lesson waste away.'



'Nay, Mary, you win good everywhere.  if you have not be Mary, I might

have make you a great goose.  but you teach I all the perseverance I

ever have.  and oh! Mary, I don't wonder you do not trust it.'



'there be the forbidden subject,' say Mary, firmly.



that be the sort of conversation into which they fall now and then

during those last day of busy sadness.



truly it could have be bad.  suffer by their own fault would

have rent they asunder more harshly, and Louis's freedom from all

fierceness and violence soften all ineffably to Mary.  James Frost's

letter of fiery indignation, almost of denunciation, make she thankful

that he be not the party concern; and Louis make her smile at

Isabel's copy of all his sentiment in ladylike phrase.



the last day come.  Louis would not be deny see Mary on board the

Valdivia; and, in spite of all Miss Ponsonby's horror of railway, he

persuade she to trust herself under his care to Liverpool.  she

augur great thing from the letter which she have entrust to Mary,

and in which she have speak of Lord Fitzjocelyn in the high term

her vocabulary could furnish.



they part bravely.  spectator hinder all display of feeling, and

no one cry, except Miss Ponsonby.



'good-bye, Louis; I will not forget your message to Tom Madison.  my

love to your father and Aunt Catharine.'



'good-bye, Mary; I shall see Tom and Chimborazo yet.'









CHAPTER V.



the new world.



  still onward, as to southern sky,

  we spread our sail, new star arise,

  new light upon the glance tide,

  fresh hue where pearl and coral hide:

  what be they all but token true

  of grace for ever fresh and new!

                        Prayers for Emigrants.





there be some day in the early year, devoid indeed of spring

brilliance, but full of soft, heavy, steaming fragrance, pervade the

grey air with sweet odour, and foster the growth of tender bud and

fragile stem with an unseen influence, more mild and kindly than even

the smile sunbeam or the gush shower.  'a grow day,' as the

country-people term such genial, gentle weather, might not be without

analogy to the brief betrothal of Louis and Mary.



subdue and anxious, there have be little of the ordinary light of

joy, hope, or gaiety, and their pleasure have be less their own than

in prepare the happiness of their two friend.  it be a time such as

to be more sweet in memory than it be in the present; and the shade

which have hang over it, the self-restraint and the forbearance which it

have elicit, have unconsciously conduce to the development of the

character of both, prepare they to endure the parting far more

effectually than unmixed enjoyment could have do. the check upon

Louis's love of trifling, the restraint on his spirit, the being

throw back on his own judgment when he want to lean upon Mary, have

give he a habit of control his boyish way.



it be a call to train himself in manliness and self-reliance.  it

change he from the unstable reed he once have be, and help he to

take one steady and consistent view of the trial require of he and of

Mary, and then to act upon it resolutely and submissively. with Mary

go, he care little what become of he until her letter could

arrive; and his father, with more attention to his suppose benefit

than to his wish, carry he at once, without return home, to a

round of visit among all his acquaintance most likely to furnish a

distracting amount of Christmas gaiety.  in the midst of these, there

occur a vacancy in the representation of a borough chiefly under the

influence of Sir Miles Oakstead; and, as it be consider expedient

that he should be bring into Parliament, his father repair with he

at once to Oakstead, and involve he in all the business of the

election.  on his success, he go with his father to London for the

session, and this be all that his friend at Northwold know of he.

he write hurried note to James or to Mr. Holdsworth on necessary

affair connect with his farm and improvement, mention fact

instead of feeling, and promise to write to Aunt Catharine when he

should have time; but the time do not seem to come, and it be easy to

believe that his passiveness of will, increase by the recent stroke,

have cause he to be hurry into a condition of involuntary practical

activity.



Mary, meanwhile, be retrace her voyage, in the lull of spirit

which, after long straining, have nothing to do but to wait in patience,

brace themselves for a fresh trial.  never suffer herself, at sea,

her first feeling, after the final wrench of parting, be interrupt

by the necessity of attend to her friend, a young mother, with

child enough to require all the service that the indefatigable Mary

could perform.  if Mrs. Willis always aver that she never could have

go through the voyage without Miss Ponsonby, Mary feel, in return,

that the little fretful boy and girl, who would never let she sit and

think, except when both be asleep, have be no small blessing to she.



yet Mary be not so much absorb and satisfied with the visible and

practical as have once be the case.  the growth have not be all on

Louis's side.  if her steadfast spirit have strengthen his wavering

resolution, the intercourse and sympathy with he have open and

unfold many a perception and quality in she, which have be as

tightly and hardly case up as leaf-bud in their gummy envelope.  a

wide range have be give to her thought; there be a swelling of

heart, a vividness of sensation, such as she have not know in early

time; she have be teach the mystery of creation, the strange

connexion with the unseen, and even with her fellow-man.  beyond the

ordinary practical kind office, for which she have be always ready,

there be now mingle something of Louis's more comprehensive spirit of

question what would do they good, and draw food for reflection

from their diverse way.



she be sensible of the change again and again, when sight recur

which once have only speak to her eye.  that luminous sea, sparkle

like flood of star, have be little more than 'how pretty! how

funny!' at her first voyage.  now, it be not only 'how Louis would

admire it!' but 'how profusely, how gloriously have the Creator spread

the globe with mysterious beauty! how marvellously have he cause his

creature to hold forth this light, to attract other to their needful

food!'  and the furrow of fire leave by their vessel's wake speak to she

of that path 'like a shine light, shine more and more unto the

perfect day.'  if with it come the remembrance of his vision of the

thread of light, it be not a recollection which would lead to

repine.



and when at Cape Horn, a mighty ice mountain drift within view,

spire, pinnacle, encrust with whiteness, rival only by the glory

of the summer cloud, cavern here and there into hollow of sapphire

blue, too deeply dazzle to behold, or rise into peak of clear,

hard, chill green; the wild fantastic point sometimes glimmer with

fragment of the rainbow arch; the rich variety, endless beyond measure

in form and colouring, and not only magnificent and terrible in the

whole mass, but lovely beyond imagination in each crystal too minute

for the eye.  Mary have once, on a like occasion, only say, 'it be

very cold;' and look to see whether the captain expect the monster

to bear down on the ship. but the present iceberg put she in mind of

the sublime aspiration which gothic cathedral seem as if they would

fain embody.  and then, she think of the marvellous interminable

waste of beauty of those untrodden region, whence yonder enormous

iceberg be but a small fragment--a petty messenger--region unseen by

human eye--beauty untouched by human hand-the glory, the sameness, yet

the infinite variety of perfect purity.  do it not seem, with all the

association of cold, of peril, of dreariness, to be a visible token

that indeed he who fashion it could prepare 'good thing past man's

understanding!'



it be well for Mary that southern constellation, snowy, white-wing

albatross, leap flying-fish, and white-cap mountain-coast, have

be join in her mind with something high, deep, and less

personal, or their recurrence would have bring she nothing but pain

unmitigated in the contrast with the time when first she have behold

they six year ago.



then she be full of hope and eager ardour to arrive, long for the

parental presence of which she have so long be deprive, hail every

novel scene as a proof that she be nearer home, and without the

anticipation of one cloud, only expect to be love, to love, and to

be useful.  and now, all fond illusion as to her father have be

snatch away, her very love for he render the perception doubly

cruel; her mother, her precious mother, far away in Ormersfield

churchyard--her life probably shorten by his harshness--her place

occupy by a young girl, differ in language, in Church, in

everything--Mary's own pardon uncertain, after all her sacrifice--a

sense of having deeply offend, hang upon she; and her heart be so

entirely in England, that have her home be perfect, her voyage must

still have be a cruel effort.  that one anticipation of be set at

rest by her father's forgiveness, and the forlorn despairing hope of

his relenting towards Louis, be all she dare to dwell on; and when

Mrs. Willis count the day till she could arrive and meet she

husband, poor Mary feel as if, but for these two chance of comfort,

she could gladly have prolong the voyage for the rest of her life.



but one burn tropical noon, the Valdivia be enter Callao

harbour, and Mary, sick and faint at heart, be array herself in a

coloured dress, lest her mourning should seem to upbraid her father.

the voyage be over, the ship be anchor, boat be come offshore,

the luggage be be hoist out of the hold, the passenger be

congregate on deck, eager to land, some gaze with curious and

enterprise eye on the new country, other scan every boat in

hope of meet a familiar face.  Mrs. Willis stand tremble with

hope, excitement, and the strange dread often rush in upon the last

moment of expectation.  she cling to Mary for support, and once said--



'oh, Miss Ponsonby, how composed you be!'  Mary's feeling be too

deep--too much concentrated for tremble.  she calm and soothe the

wife's sudden fright, lest 'something should have happen to George;'

and she even smile when the child's scream of ecstacy infect

their mother, when the papa and uncle they have be watch for with

strain eye prove to be stand on deck close beside they.



Mary cast her eye round, and see nothing of her own.  she stand apart,

while the Willis family be in all the rapture of the meeting; she see

they move off, too happy and sufficient for themselves even to

remember she.  she have a dull, heavy sensation that she must bear all,

and this be the beginning; and she be about to begin her arrangement

for her dreary landing, when Mrs. Willis's brother, Mr. Ward, turn

back.  he be a middle-aged merchant, whom her mother have much like

and esteem, and there be something cheer in his frank, hearty

greeting, and satisfaction in see she.  it be more like a welcome,

and it bring the Willises back, shock at having forget she in

the selfishness of their own joy; but they have make sure that she have

be meet.  Mr. Ward do not think that she be expect by the

Valdivia; Mr. Ponsonby have not mention it as likely.  so they be

all seat in the boat, with the black rower; and while the Willises

fondle their child, and exchange home-news, Mr. Ward sit by Mary,

and speak to she kindly, not openly refer to the state of her home,

but show a warmth and consideration which evince much delicate

sympathy.



they all drive together in the Willises' carriage up the slope road

from Callao to Lima, and Mary hear astonishment, such as she have once

feel, break out in scream from the child at the sight of

omnibus fill with gaily-dress negro, and brown horsewoman in

Panama hat and lace-edge trouser career down the road.  but then,

her father have come and fetch she from on board, and that dear mamma

be wait in the carriage!  they enter the old walled town when

twilight have already close in, and Mrs. Willis be anxious to take she

tired little one home at once.  they be set down at their own door;

but Mr. Ward, with protect anxious kindness, insist on see Miss

Ponsonby safely home before he would join they.  as they drive through

the dark street, Mary hear a little restless movement, betray some

embarrassment; and at last, with an evident desire of reassure she,

he say, 'Senora Rosita be think very pleasing and engaging;' and

then, as if willing to change the subject, he hastily add, 'I suppose

you do not speak the Pizarro?'



'no.'



'she have sail about three week.  she take home your cousin, Mr.

Dynevor.'



Mary cry out with surprise.



'I think he a complete fixture, but he be go home for a year. it

seem his family property be in the market, and he be anxious to

secure it.'



'how glad his mother will be!' be all Mary could say, as there rush

over she the thought of the wonderful change this would make in

Dynevor Terrace.  her first feeling be that she must tell Louis; she

second, that two ocean be between they; and then she think of Aunt

Catharine having live, after all, to see her son.



she have forget to expect the turn when the carriage wheel under

the arched entry of her father's house.  all be gloom and stillness,

except where a little light shone in a sort of porter's lodge upon the

eager negro feature of two black, with much gesticulation, play at

dice.  they come out hastily at the sound of the carriage; and as Mr.

Ward hand out Mary, and inquire for Mr. Ponsonby, she recognise and

address the white-woolle old Xavier, the mayor domo.  poor old

Xavier!  often have she hunt and tease he, and try to make he

understand 'cosas de Inglaterra,' and to make he cease from his

beloved dice; but no soon do he see her face than, with a cry of

joy, 'La Senorita Maria! la Senorita Maria!' down he go upon his

knee, and begin kiss the hem of her dress.



all the rest of the negro establishment come round, caper and

chatter Spanish; and, in the confusion, Mary could not get she

question hear--where be her father? and Xavier's vehement threat and

command to the other to be silent, do not produce a calm.  at last,

bear a light, there come forward a fade, sallow dame, with a candle

in her hand, who might have sit for the picture of the Duena Rodriguez,

and at her appearance the negro subside.  she be an addition to the

establishment since Mary's departure; but in she might be easily

recognise the Tia, the individual who in limenian household hold a

position between companion and housekeeper.  she introduce herself by

the lugubrious appellation of Senora Dolores, and, receive Mary with

obsequious courtesy, explain that the Senor and Senora be at a

tertulia, or evening party.  she light Mary and Mr. Ward into the

quadra; and there Mr. Ward, shake hand with she as if he would

thereby compensate for all that be want in she welcome, promise to

go and inform her father of her arrival.



Mary stand in the large dark room, with the soft matted floor, and the

window high up near the carve timbere ceiling, the single lamp,

burn in rum, cast a dim gleam over the well-know furniture, by

which her mother have strive to give an english appearance to the room.

it be very dreary, and she would have give the world to be alone with

her throb head, her dull heartache, and the weariness of spirit

over-long wound up for the meeting; but her own apartment could be no

refuge until it have be cleanse and make ready, and dolore and

Xavier be persecute she every moment with their hospitality and

their inquiry.  then come a quick, manly tread, and for a moment her

heart almost seem to stand still, in the belief that it be her

father; but it be only Robson, hurry in to offer his service and

apology.  perhaps he be the very last person she could bear to see,

feeling, as she do, that if he have be more explicit all the offence

would have be spare.  he be so much aware of all family matter,

and be accustom to so much confidence from her father, that she

could not believe he unconscious; and there be something hateful to

she in the plausible frankness and deferential familiarity of his

manner, as, brush up his sandy hair upon his forehead, he pour

forth explanation that Mr. Ponsonby would be delighted, but grieve

that no one have meet she--Valdivia not expect so soon--not anticipate

the pleasure--if they have imagine that Miss Ponsonby be a passenger--



'my father desire that I would come out by she,' say Mary.



'ay, true--so he inform I; but since later intelligence'--and he

cast a glance at Mary, to judge how much furth to go; but meeting

with nothing but severity, he cover the impertinence by say, 'in

fact, though the Valdivia be mention, and Mrs. Willis, Mr. Ponsonby

have reason to suppose you would not receive his letter in time to

avail yourself of the escort.'



'I do so, however,' say Mary, coldly.



'most gratifying.  Mr. and Mrs. Ponsonby will be highly gratified. in

fact, Miss Ponsonby, I must confess that be a most unfortunate blunder

of mine last August.  I should not have fall into the error have I not

be so long absent at Guayaquil that I have have no opportunity of

judging of the amiable lady; and I will own to much natural surprise

and some indignation, before I have have the pleasure of personal

acquaintance with the charm and the grace--Hem! in effect, it be a

step that no one could have recommend; and when your noble relative

put it to I in so many word whether I would counsel your continue

your journey, I could not take it on I to urge a measure so painful to

your feeling, unaware as I be then of the amiable quality of the

lady who occupy the situation of the highly beloved and esteemed--'



Mary could not bear to hear her mother's name in his mouth, so she cut

he short by say, 'I suppose you think you act for the good, Mr.

Robson; it be very unfortunate, but it cannot be help. pray can you

tell I where the lad Madison be?' she add, resolve to show he that

she would not discuss these matter with he; 'I have a parcel for he.'



'he be at the San Benito mine, Miss Ponsonby.'



'how do he go on?'



'well--I may say very well, allow for inexperience.  he appear a

steady, intelligent lad, and I have no doubt will answer the purpose

well.'



there be one gratification for Mary, at least, in the pleasure this

would afford at home; but Robson continue make conversation about

Mr. Dynevor's visit to England, and the quantity of work this temporary

absence entail on he; and then on the surprise it would be to his

patron to find she, and Senora Rosita's interest in she, and the

numerous gaiety of the bride, and the admiration she excite, and his

own desire to be useful.   this afford Mary an opportunity for

getting rid of he at last, by send he to make arrangement for her

baggage to be send from Callao the next morning.



ten minute more, half spend in conquer her disgust, half in sick

anticipation, and other foot be cross the matted sala, the curtain

over the doorway be draw aside, and there stand her father, and a

lady, all white and diamond, by his side.  he hold out his arm, Mary

fall into they, and it be the same kind rough kiss which have greet

her six year back.  it seem to be forgiveness, consolation,

strength, all at once; and their word mingled--'Papa, you forgive

me'--'Mary, my good girl, I do not think they would have let you come

back to I.  this be but a dreary come home for you, my dear.'  and

then, instantly change his language to Spanish, he add, appeal

to his wife, that have they guess she be on board, they would have

come to meet she.



Rosita reply earnestly to that effect, and warmly embrace Mary,

pity she for such an arrival, and hope that dolore have make she

comfortable.  the rest of the conversation be carry on in the same

tongue.  Rosita be much what Mary have expect--of a beautiful figure,

with fine eye, and splendid raven hair, but without much feature or

expression.  she look almost like a dream to-night, however, with she

snowy robe, and the diamond sparkle with their dewdrop flash in

her hair and on her arm, with the fitful light catch from the

insufficient candle.  all she venture to say have a timid gracefulness

and simplicity that be very win; and her husband glance more

than once to see if she be not gain upon his daughter; and so in

truth she be, personally, though it be exceedingly painful to see she

where Mary have be use to see that dear suffering face; and it be

impossible not to feel the contrast with her father as painfully

incongruous.  Mr. Ponsonby be a large man, with the jovial manner of

one never accustomed to self-restraint; good birth and breeding make

he still a gentleman, in spite of his loud voice and the trace of

self-indulgence.  he be ruddy and bronze, and his eyebrow and hair

look as if touch by hoar frost; altogether as dissimilar a partner

as could be devise for the slender girlish be by his side.



after a little spanish conversation, all kind on his aide, and thus

infinitely relieve Mary, they part for the night.  she lay before

he the packet of letter, which she have hold all this time as the last

link to Louis, and seek his eye as she do so with a look of appeal;

but he carefully avert his glance, and she could read nothing.



Weary as she be, Mary hear again and again, through her unglazed

window, the watchman's musical cry of 'Ave Maria purisima, las--es

temblado!'  'Viva Peru y sereno!' and chid herself for foolish

anticipation that Louis would hear and admire all the strange sound

of the New World.  the kindness of her welcome give she a little hope;

and she go over and over again her own part of the discussion which

she expect, almost persuade herself, that Louis's own conduct and

her aunt's testimony must win the day.



she need not have spend so many hour in preparation for the morning.

she be up early, in hope of see her father before he go to his

office, but he be go for a ride.  the english breakfast, which have

be establish, much to his content, by her own exertion, have quite

vanish, each of the family have a cup of chocolate in private, and

there be no meeting till, late in the morning, Rosita saunter into

her room, embrace she, make inquiry as to her rest, inform she

that she be go to the Opera that night, and beg she to accompany

she.  to appear in public with Rosita be the tribute for which Mary

have come out, so she readily agree; and thereupon the Senora digress

into the subject of dress, and require of Mary a display of all her

robe, and an account of the new fashion of the english lady.  it

be all with such innocent, earnest pleasure, that Mary could not be

annoyed, and good-naturedly make all her disappointing display.



the midday meal bring her father--still kind and affectionate, but

never drop the Spanish, nor manifest any consciousness of her

letter.  she have hope of the period allot to the siesta, to which

custom, in old day, she have never accede, but have always spend the

interval on any special occupation--above all, to write for he; but

he go off without any notice of she, and she be in no condition to

dispense with the repose, for her frame be tired out, though her hope

and fear could not even let she dream rest.



then come a drive with Rosita, resplendent in french millinery, then

supper; then the Opera, to which her father accompany they, still

without a word.  another day be nearly the same, only that this time

she have to do she good to explain the new fashion in behalf of a

dress of Rosita's, then be make, and in the evening to go to a party

at the Consul's, where she meet Mr. Ward, and have some talk which she

might have enjoy but for her suspense.



on the third, Rosita be make happy by unpack an elegant little

black papi mache table, a present from Miss Ponsonby.  Good Melicent!

be ever two sister-in-law more unlike?   but Lord Ormersfield have

do Rosita and her husband good service.  if Aunt Melicent have first

learn the real fact, her wrath would have be extreme--a mere

child, a foreigner, a Roman Catholic, a nun!  her horror would have

know no bound, and she would, perhaps, have break with her brother

forever.  but by make the newly-married pair victim of injustice,

the Earl have make the reality a relief, and Melicent have write

civilly to her brother, and a sisterly sort of stiff letter to the

bride--of which the Limenian could not understand one word; so that

Mary have to render it all into Spanish, even to her good aunt's hope

that Rosita would be kind to she, and use all her influence in favour

of her happiness.



whether Rosita would have comprehend this without Mary's blush

might be question, but she do say, 'ah! yes! you be to have

marry the Visconde, be you not?  El Senor be so angry!  do his

father forbid when your father refuse your portion?'



'oh no, he would receive I if I bring nothing.'



'and you wish to marry?' say Rosita.



'if my father would only consent.'



'but why do you come here then?' say Rosita, open her large eye.



'my father command I.'



'England be a long way off,' say Rosita, languidly, 'he could not have

reach you there.  you would have be a great lady and noble! how

could you come away, if he would still have you?'



'because it would have be wrong.  we could not have be happy in

disobey my father.'



'ah! but you could have do penance.  I have many penance to do for

quit my convent; Padre Inigo be very severe, but they be over at

last, and I be free for give alm twice a week, and the Sisters have

forgive I, and send I so many silver flower and dulce; I will show

they to you some day.  could you not have do penance?'



'I be afraid not.'



'ah! I forget you be a heretic, poor thing!  how inconvenient!  and

so you will not come with I to the bull-fight next Sunday?'



such be Rosita's idea on the point, Mary give up much hope in her

influence, and try what a good-humour announcement of she

re-establishment of the english breakfast would effect towards bring

her father to a tete-a-tete, but he never come near it.  the wait in

silence be miserable enough for herself, but she would have continue

to bear it except for the injustice to Louis, who must not be keep in

suspense.  the departure of the next english mail should be the limit

of her endurance, and after a day of watch, she finally go up to

her father when he would have bid her good night, and say, in

English, 'papa, if you please, I must speak to you.'



'so you shall, my dear, but we be all tired; we must have our night's

rest.'



'no, papa, it must be to-night, if you please.  it be necessary for I

to know before to-morrow how I be to write to Lord Fitzjocelyn.'



'Pshaw!  Mary, I've settle that young fellow!'



'Papa, I don't think you know--'



'I've write he a civil answer, if that's what you mean, much

civiller than he or his father deserve,' he say, speak loud, and

try to fle away from she, but she stand her ground, and speak

calmly and steadily, though her heart beat violently.



'you do not understand the true state of the case, papa; and without

do so, you cannot write such an answer as they deserve.'



'I know this, that old Ormersfield have be the curse of my life!' and

out pour one of those torrent of fierce passion which have be

slowly but surely the death of his wife.  Mary have never hear one in

the full tide before, but she stand firm; there be none of the tear,

auch as, in her mother, have be willnot to exasperate he far, but

with pale cheek, compressed lip, and hand lock together, her heart

be one silent entreaty that it might be forgive he above.  thus she

stand while the storm of anger rage, and when at last it have exhaust

itself, he say, in a low voice, 'and so you be still take with

this fellow's son, this young puppy!  I think you have more spirit and

sense, Mary, or I never would have trust you among they.'



'there be very few people in this world half so good or so

right-minded as Fitzjocelyn,' say Mary, earnestly and deliberately.

'it be he who bid I come to you, well know that we could never be

happy without your consent.'



'oh! he do so, do he?  he be deep than I think would not risk

your fortune.  why, Mary, I do not think a girl of your sense could be

so take in!  it be transparent, I tell you.  they get you there,

flatter you up with their attention, but when they find you too wise

for they the first time, off go this youth to Miss Conway, find she

a bad speculation, no heiress at all, and dispose of she to his

cousin.  I wonder if he'll find old dynevor grateful.  meanwhile the

old Lord must need come out here, find our gain a well prize than

he expect, trump up this story at Valparaiso, take you in, and

bring you home to this precious youth.  and you, and your aunt too,

be ready to believe it all!  I always know that woman be fool

whenever a title come in their way, I see it more than ever now, since

you and Melicent be both like the rest of 'em.'



'papa,' say Mary, again rally her firmness, 'we have find sadly

how easy it be to be deceive when one be not on the spot.  will you

listen to I, who see it all?'



'no, Mary, I will not hear the nonsense they have put into your head,

my poor girl.  no!  I tell you it be of no use!  it be my resolute

purpose that not one farthing of mine shall go to patch up the

break-down Ormersfield property!  the man be my enemy, and have sow

dissension in my family from the first moment I connect myself with

he.  I'll never see my daughter his son's wife.  I wonder he have the

impudence to propose it!  I shall think you lose to all feeling for

your father, if you say another word about it.'



'very well,' say Mary, with steady submission.  'then I will only

write one more letter to Fitzjocelyn, and tell he that your objection

be insuperable, and that he must think of it no more.'



'that's right, Mary! you be a good girl, after all!  you'll stand by

your father, in spite of all the House of Peers!  I'm glad to see you

hold up your head so bravely.  so you do fancy be a Viscountess,

do you! but it be not a heartbreaking matter either, my girl!'



this be too much for Mary, and when her father would have kiss she,

she lay her head on his shoulder and weep silently but bitterly.



'ha! what's all this?  why, you don't pretend to care for a young

mercenary scamp like that?'



'he be the noble, most generous, most disinterested man I ever know!'

say Mary, stand apart, and speak clearly.  'I give he up

because--you command I, father, but I will not hear he speak of

unjustly.'



'ha! ha! so long as you give he up, we willn't quarrel.  he shall be all

that, and more too, if you like; and we'll never fight over the matter

again, since I have you safe back, my child.'



'I do not mean to mention he again,' say Mary; 'I wish to obey you.'



'then there's an end of the matter.  you'll get over it, my girl, and

we'll find some honest man worth two of your niggardly, proud-spirited

earl.  there, I know you be a reasonable girl that can be silent, and

not go on teasing.  so, Mary, you may have a cup of tea for I

to-morrow in the sala, like old time.  Goodnight, my dear.'



wait upon himself!  that be the reward that Mr. Ponsonby hold out

to his daughter for crush her first love!



but it be a reward.  anything that draw her father nearer to she be

receive with gratitude by Mary, and the word of kindness in some

degree soften the blow. she have never have much hope, though now she

find it have be more than she have be willing to believe; and even

now she could not absolutely cease to entertain some hope of the

result of Oliver's return, nor silence one linger fancy that Louis

might yet wait unbound; although she tell herself of his vacillation

between herself and Isabel, of his father's influence, and of the

certainty that he would see many more worthy of his love than herself.

not any one who could love he so well--oh no!  but when Mary find she

thought take this turn, she rise up as she lay, clasp her hand

together, and repeat half aloud again and again, 'be Thou my all!'



and by the morning, though Mary's cheek be very white, and her eye

sink for want of sleep, she have a cheerful word for her father, and a

smile, the very sight of which would have go to the heart of any one

of those from whom he have cut she off.



then she write her letter.  it be not so hard to make this final

severance as it have be to watch Louis's face, and think of the pain

she have to inflict.  many a time have she weigh each phrase she set

down, so that it might offend neither against sincerity nor

resignation, and yet be soothe and console.  some would have

think her letter stiff and laboured, but she have learn to believe

that a grave and careful style befit a serious occasion, and would

have think incoherency childish or affected.



she release he entirely from his engagement, entreat he not to

rebel against the decision, but to join she in thankfulness that no

shade need be cast over the remembrance of the happy hour spend

together; and beg he not to grieve, since she have, after the first

pain, be able to acquiesce in the belief that the separation might

conduce to his happiness; and she should always regard he as one of

those most near and dear to she, and rejoice in whatever be for his

welfare, glad that his heart be still young enough to form new tie.

'forgive I for speak thus,' she add; 'I know that it may wound

you now, but there may come a time when it may make you feel more at

ease and unfettered; and I could not endure to imagine that the

affection which you bring yourself to lavish on one so unworthy,

should stand in the way of your happiness for life.'  she desire he

to make no answer, but to consider this as the final dissolution: and

she conclude by all that she think would prove most console, as to

the present state of affair with she; and with a few affectionate

word, to show that he be still a great deal to she, though everything

he might not be.



this do, Mary face her life in the New World.  she have to form she

habit for herself, for her importance in the house be go; but she

go to work resolutely, and, lonely as she be, she have far more

resource than if she have never be at Ormersfield.  she have many

hour to herself, and she unpack her book, and set herself course

of study, to which Louis have open the door.  she unveil her eye to

natural history, and do not find flower or butterfly unsoothe. she

undertake the not very hopeful task of teach a tiny negro imp, who

answer the purpose of a bell, to read and work; and she be

persevere in her effort to get xavi and dolore to make her father

comfortable.



her father be decidedly glad of her company.  he like conversation,

and enjoy the morning meeting, to which Mr. Ward be often a welcome

addition, delight in anything so English, and find Miss Ponsonby

much improve by her introduction to english society. sometimes Mary

write for her father, and now and then be consult; and she be

always grateful for whatever make she feel herself of use.  she be on

kind and friendly term with Rosita, but they do not become more

intimate than at first.  the Senora be swinge in a hammock

half-asleep, with a cigarette between her lip, all the morning; and

when she emerge from this torpid state, in a splendid toilette, she

have too many more congenial friend often to need her step-daughter in

her visit, her expedition to lottery, and her call on her old

friend the nun.  on a fast-day, or any other occasion that keep she

at home, she either arrange her jewel, discuss her dress, or have

some lively chatter, which she call learn English.  she coax,

fondle, and domineer prettily over Mr. Ponsonby; and he look on

amused, gratify her caprice, caress she, and seem to regard she

as a pretty pet and playthe.









CHAPTER VI.



the two PENDRAGONS.



  the red dragon and the white,

  hard together gin they smite,

  with mouth, paw, and tail,

  between hem be full hard batail.

                 the history of Merlin.





spring be on the border of summer, when one afternoon, as Clara sat

write a note in the drawing-room, she hear a tap at the door of the

little sitting-room, and spring to open it, she behold a welcome

sight.



'Louis!  how glad I be!  where do you come from?'



'last from the station,' say Louis.



'what make you knock at that door, now the drawing-room be alive?'



'I could not venture on an unceremonious invasion of Mrs. James Frost's

territory.'



'you'll find no distinction of territory here,' laugh Clara.  'it be

a fiction that we be to live in separate room, like naughty

child.  do not the drawing-room look nice?'



'as much improve as the inhabitant.  where be the other native?'



'Granny and Isabel be walk, and will end by pick up Jem come

out of school.  we use to wait for he so often, that at last he say

we should be laugh at, so there's a law against it which no one dare

to transgress but granny.'



'so I conclude that you be a happy family.'



'after all, it be worth spend two year at school to enjoy properly

the have it over.'



'I give Jem credit for having secure a first-rate governess for you.'



'that she be!  why, with she I really do like read and draw all

the morning!  I almost believe that some day I shall wake up and find

myself an accomplished young lady!  and, Louis, have you read the last

Western Magazine?'



'I have read very little for sport lately.'



'then I must tell you.  Jem be bemoan himself about have nothing

to give to the new Blind Asylum, and the next evening Isabel bring

out the prettiest little manuscript book, tie with blue ribbon, and

tell he to do as he please with it.  it be a charming account of her

expedition to the Hebrides, write out for her sister, without a

notion of anything far; but Jem send it to this Magazine, and it be

accept, and the first part be out.  she will have quite a sum for it,

and all be to go to the Blind Asylum!'



'Capital!--Let I take it home to night, Clara, and I will stand an

examination on it to-morrow.'



'we ask she whether she project a sketch of the Paris Revolution,'

say Clara, laugh.  'she have a famous heap of manuscript in her

desk, and one long story about a Sir Roland, who have his name before

she know Jem, but it be all unfinished, she tear out a great many

page, and have to make a new finish; and I be afraid the poor knight be

go to die of a mortal wound at his lady's foot.  Isabel like sad

thing best;--but oh! here they come, and I'm talk dreadful treason.'



three more joyous-look people could hardly have be find than

those who enter the room, welcome Louis with delight, and ask

what good wind have bring he.



'partly that Inglewood be cry out for the master's eye,' say Louis;

'and partly that my father fancy I look fag, and kindly let I

run down for a holiday.'



'I be of his mind,' say Mrs. Frost, tenderly; 'there be an M.P.

expression gathering on your brow, Louis.'



'for you to dispel, Aunt Kitty.  I tell he you be the good

dissipation, and Virginia be of the same mind.  Isabel, she say

Dynevor Terrace be the only place she ever wish to see again.'



'do you often see Virginia?' ask Isabel.



'not unless I go early, and beg for she; and then she generally have

some master.  that last onset of accomplishment be serious!'



'yes,' say Isabel, 'the sense of leisure and tranquillity here be

marvellous!'



'not leisure in the sense of idleness,' say James.



'no,' say Isabel; 'but formerly idle requirement throng my time,

and for nothing worth do could I find leisure.'



'there be nothing more exact than idle requirement,' say James.

'pray be Clara accept that invitation?  come to dinner, Louis, and

give we an excuse.'



'no, he willn't,' say Mrs. Frost, 'he will take my side.  these young

people want to cast off all their neighbour.'



'now, granny,' exclaim James, 'have we not dutifully dine all round?

do not isabel conduct Clara to that ball?  be it not hard to reproach

we with sigh at an evening immolate at the shrine of the

richardson?'



'well, my dear, you must judge.'



'I be ready to do whatever you think right; I leave you to settle it,'

say Isabel, move out of the room, that Louis might be free for a

more intimate conversation.



'now,' cry James, 'be it in the nature of thing that she should live

in such society as Mrs. Walby's and Mrs. Richardson's?  People who call

her Mrs. James!'



'such a queen as she look among they!' say Clara.



'one comfort be, they don't like that,' say James.  'even Mrs. Calcott

be not flatter by her precedence.  I hope we shall soon be drop

out of their party.  as long as I do my duty by their son, what

right have they to impose the penance of their society on my wife?  all

the irksomeness of what she have leave, and none of the compensation!'



'blissful solitude' say Louis, 'thereto I leave you.'



'you be not go yet!  you mean to dine here?' be the cry.



'my dear friend,' he say, hold up his hand, 'if you only know how

I long to have no one to speak to!'



'you cry out for silence!' exclaim James.



'I be pant for what I have not have these five month--space for my

thought to turn round.'



'surely you be at liberty to form your own habit!' say James.



'I be tell so whenever my father see I receive a note,' say Louis,

wearily; 'but I see that, habituate as he be to live alone, he be

never really at ease unless I be in the way; so I make our hour agree

as far as our respective treadmill permit; and though we do not speak

much, I can never think in company.'



'don't you have your ride to yourself?'



'why, no.  my father will never ride enough to do he good, unless he

want to do I good.  People be all surprised to see he look so

well; the country lane make he quite bloom.'



'but not you, my poor boy,' say his aunt; 'I be afraid it be a sad

strain.'



'there now, Aunt Kitty, I be go.  I must have the pleasure of look

natural sometimes, without cause any vituperation of any one beyond

sea.'



'you shall look just as you please if you will only stay.  we be just

go to dinner.'



'thank you, let I come to-morrow.  I shall be well company when I

have have my sulk out.'



his aunt follow he to the stair, and he turn to she, say,

anxiously, 'no letter?'  she shake her head.  'it would be barely

possible,' he say, 'but if it would only come while I be at home in

peace!'



'ah! this be sadly try!' say she, part his hair on his brow as

he stand some step below she, and win a sweet smile from he.



'all for the good,' he say.  'one thing may mitigate another.  that

political whirlpool might suck I in, if I have any heart or hope for

it.  and, on the other hand, it would be very unwholesome to be leave to

my own inertness--to be as good for nothing as I feel.'



'my poor dear boy, you be very good about it.  I wish you could have

be spare.'



'I do not come to make you sad, Aunt Kitty,' he reply, smile; 'no;

I get some energy back when I remember that this may be a probation.

her mother would not have think I man enough, and that be what I

have to work for.  whether this end well or not, she be the lead

star of my life.'  and, with the renewal of spirit with which he have

speak, he press his aunt's hand, and run down stair.



when he ride to Northwold, the follow afternoon, having spend the

morning in walk over his field, he overtake a most comfortable

couple--James and Isabel, return from their holiday stroll, and

Louis, leave his horse at the inn, and join they, begin to hear

all their school affair.  James have throw his whole heart into his

work, have be make various reform, introduce new study, make

a point of religious instruction, and meditate on a course of

lecture on history, to be give in the evening, the attendance to be

voluntary, but a prize hold out for proficiency.  Louis take up the

subject eagerly, and Isabel enter into the discussion with all her

soul, and the grammar-school do indeed seem to be in a way to become

something very superior in tone to anything Northwold have formerly

see, engross as it do all the power of a man of such ability, in

the full vigour of youth.



talk earnestly, the trio have reach the Terrace, and James be

unlatche the iron gate, when he interrupt himself in the midst of

detail his view on modern language to say, 'no, I have nothing for

you.'



'Sir, I beg your pardon!' be the quick reply from a wither, small,

but not ill-dress old man, 'I only asked--'



'let the lady pass,' say James, peremptorily, wish to save his wife

from annoyance, 'it be of no use, I never look at petition.'



'surely he be not a beggar!' say Isabel, as he draw she on.



'you may be easy about he, my dear,' say James.  'he have lay hold of

Louis, who would swallow the whole spanish legion of impostor. he will

be after we directly with a piteous story.'



Louis be after he, with a face more than half arch fun--'Jem, Jem, it

be your uncle!'



'Nonsense!  how can you be so take in!  don't go and disappoint

granny--I'll settle he.'



'take care, Jem--it be Oliver, and no mistake!  why, he be as like you

as Pendragon blood can make he!  go and beg his pardon.'



James hasten down stair, as Louis bound up--seek Mrs. Frost in

the sitting-room, and, without ceremony, rush up and knock at the

bed-room door.  Jane open it.



'he be come!' cry Louis--'Oliver be come.'



Old Jane give a shriek, and run back wildly, clap her hand.  her

mistress start forward--'Come!--where?'



'Here!--in the hall with Jem.'



he fear that he have be too precipitate, for she hide her face in her

hand; but it be the intensity of thanksgiving; and though her whole

frame be in a tremor, she fly rather than run forward, never even

see Louis's proffered arm.  he have only reach the landing-place,

when beneath he hear the greeting--'Mother, I can take you

home--Cheveleigh be yours.'  but to she the word be drown in her

own breathless cry--'My boy! my boy!'  she see, know, hear nothing,

save that the son, miss and mourn for thirty-four year, be safe

within her arm, the longing void fill up.  she see not that the

stripling have become a worn and elderly man,--she recke not how he

come.  he be Oliver, and she have he again!  what be the rest to she?



those word?  they might be out of taste, but Fitzjocelyn guess that

to speak they at the first meeting have be the vision of Oliver's

life--the object to which he have sacrifice everything. and yet how

chill and unheeded they fall!



Louis could have stand moralize, but his heart have begin to throb at

the chance that Oliver bring tiding of Mary.  he feel himself an

intrusive spectator, and hasten into the drawing-room, when Clara

nearly run against he, but stand still.  'I beg your pardon, but what

be Isabel tell I?  be it really?'



'really!  Kindred blood signally fail to speak.'



Clara take a turn up and down the room.  'I say, Louis, ought I to go

down?'



'no; leave he and granny to their happiness,' say Louis; and James,

at the same moment run up, throw himself into a chair, with an

emphatic 'there!'



'dear grandmamma!' say Isabel; 'I hope it be not too much for she.'



James make no answer.



'be you disappointed in he, dear James?' she continue.



'I could not be disappoint,' he answer, shortly.



'poor man--he have a poor welcome among you,' say Louis.



'welcome be not to be buy,' say James.  'I could not stand hear

he reply to poor granny's heartfelt rapture with his rich and his

Cheveleigh, as if that be all she could prize.'



step be mount the stair, and the alert, sharp tone of Oliver

be heard--'Married then?  should have wait--do it in style.'



James and Isabel glance at each other in amused indignation; and Mrs.

Frost enter, tremulous with joy, and her bright hazel eye lustrous

with tear, as she leant on the arm of her recovered son. he be a

little, spare, shrivelled man, drolly like his nephew, but with all the

youthfulness dry out of he, the freckle multiply by score, and

the keen black eye sink, sharpen, and surround with innumerable

shrewd pucker.  the movement be even more brisk, as if time be

money; and in speech, the small change of particle be omit, and

every word seemed bite off short at the end; the whole man, in

gesture, manner, and voice, an almost grotesque caricature of all

James's peculiarity.



'Mrs. Roland Dynevor, I presume? say Oliver, as Isabel come forward to

meet he.



'never so know hitherto,' return her husband.  'my wife be Mrs.

James Frost, if you please.'



'that be over now,' say Oliver, consequentially; and as his mother

present to he 'poor Henry's little Clara,' he kiss she

affectionately, say, 'well-grow young lady, upon my word!  like her

father--that's right.'



'here be almost another grandchild,' say Mrs. Frost--'Louis

Fitzjocelyn--not much like the Fitzjocelyn you remember, but a new M.P.

as he be then.'



'Humph!' say Oliver, with a dry sound, apparently express, 'so that

be what our Parliament be make of.  Father well?' he ask.



'quite well, thank you, sir.'



Oliver level his keen eye on he, as though note down

observation, while he be burn for tiding of Mary, yet hold back

by reserve and sense of the uncongeniality of the man.  his aunt,

however, in the midst of her own joy, mark his restless eye, and put

the question, whether Mary Ponsonby have arrive?



'ha! you let she go, do you?' say Oliver, turn on Louis.  'I tell

her father you'd be no such fool.  he be in a proper rage at your

letter, but it would have blow over if you have stick by she, and he be

worth enough to set you all on your leg.'



Louis could not bring himself to make any answer, and his mother

interrupt by a question as to Dona Rosita.



'like all the rest.  eye and foot, that's all.  foolish business! but

what possess Ormersfield to make such a blunder?  I never see

Ponsonby in such a tantrum, and his be no trifle.'



'it be all the fault of your clerk, Robson,' say James; 'he would not

refute the story.'



'sharp fellow, Robson,' chuckle Oliver; 'couldn't refute it.  no; as

he tell I, he know the way Ponsonby have go on ever since his wife

go home, and of late he have send he to Guayaquil, about the

Equatorial Navigation--so he have see nothing;--and, say he to I, he

have no notion of bring out poor Miss Ponsonby--do not know whether

her father would thank he; and yet the good of it be, that he pacify

Ponsonby with talk of difficulty of deal with preconceived

notion.  know how to get hold of he.  marriage would never have be

if he have be there, but it be the less damage. Mary would have have

more reason to have turn about, if she have not find he marry.'



'but, Oliver,' say his mother, 'I think this Robson be an honest

man, in whom you have entire confidence!'



'ha! ha!  D'ye think I'd put that in _any_ man?  no, no; he know how

far to go with I.  I've plenty of check on he.  cann't get business

do but by a wide-awake chap like that.'



'be Madison under he?' ask Louis, feel as if he have be

apprentice the boy to a chief of banditti.



'the lad you send out?  ay.  leave he up at the mine.  sharp fellow,

but too raw for the office yet.'



'too scrupulous!' say James, in an undertone, while his uncle be

explain to his mother that he could not have come away without

leave Robson to manage his affair, and Mr. Ponsonby, and tell

exultingly some story of the favourite clerk's sharp practice.



the party go down together in a not very congenial state.



next to Mrs. Frost's unalloyed gladness, the most pleasant spectacle

be old Jane, who volunteer her service in help to wait, that she

might have the delight of hover about Master Oliver, to whom she

attend exclusively, and would not let Charlotte so much as offer he

the potato.  and Charlotte be in rather an excited state at the

presence of a peruvian production, and the flutter of expect a

letter which would make her repent of the smile and blush she have

expend over an elaborate valentine, admire as an original

production, and value the more, alas! because poor Marianne have

receive none.  Charlotte be just begin to repent of her

ungenerous triumph, and agitation make she wait less deft and pretty

than usual; but this matter the less, since to Oliver any attendance

by woman-servant be a shock, as be the small table and plain fare;

and he look round uneasily.



'here be an old friend, Oliver,' say his mother, take up a curious

old soup-ladle.



'I see.  it will take some time to get up the stock of plate.  I shall

give an order as I pass through London.  to be engrave with the

Dynevor crest as before, or would you prefer the lozenge, ma'am?'



'oh, my dear, don't talk of it now!  I be only sorry this be nothing

but mutton-broth; but that's what come of sudden arrival, Oliver.'



'it shall be remedie at home,' say Oliver, as if he consider

mutton-broth as one degree from famine.



'I know you have it for I,' say Louis.  'if Jane excel in one art

before all other, it be in mutton-broth.'



Oliver dart a glance as if he imagine this compliment to be mere

derision of his mother and Jane.



thing go on in this style all the evening.  Oliver have two

idea--Cheveleigh, and the Equatorial Steam Navigation Company--and on

these he ring the change.



there be something strike in his devotion of a lifetime to redeem

his mother's fortune, but the grandeur be not easily visible in the

detail.  he come down on Dynevor Terrace as a consequential, moneyed

man, contemptuous of the poverty which he might have alleviate, and

obtrude tardy and oppressive patronage.  he rub against the new

generation in too many place for charity or gratitude to be easy. he

be utterly at variance with taste, and openly broach unworthy

sentiment and opinion, and his kindness and his displeasure be

equally irksome.  if such repugnance to he be feel even by Louis,

the least personally affect, and the good able to sympathize with his

aunt; it be far strong in James, abhorring patronage, sensible that,

happen what might, his present perfect felicity must be disturb, and

devoid of any sentiment for Cheveleigh that could make the restoration

compensate for the obligation so unpleasantly enforce; and Isabel's

fastidious taste make she willing to hold aloof as far as might be

without vex the old lady.



there be no amalgamation.  Fitzjocelyn and Isabel be near the

window, talk over her former home and her sister, and all the

particular of the society which she have leave, and he have enter;

highly interesting to themselves and to the listen Clara, but to the

uninitiated sound rather like 'taste, Shakspeare, and the musical

glass.'



Oliver and his mother, sit close together, be live in an old

world; ask and answer many a melancholy question on friend, dead

or lose sight of, and yet these last they always make sure that they

should find when they go home to Cheveleigh--that home to which the

son revert with unbroken allegiance; while the whole be intersperse

with account of his plan, and explanation of his vast design for

the renovation of the old place.



James hover on the outskirt of both party, too little at ease to

attach himself to either; fret by his wife's interest in a world to

which he be a stranger, impatient of his uncle's plan, and trebly

anger by observe the shrewd curious glance which the old man cast

from time to time towards the pair by the window. fortunately, Mrs.

Frost be still too absolutely wrapt in maternal transport to mark the

cloud that be gather over her peace.  to look at her son, wait on

he, and hear his voice, so fully satisfied she, that as yet it make

little difference what that voice say, and it never enter her mind

to suppose that all her dear one be not share her bliss.



'you be the first to tell I,' she say, as she bade Louis good night

with fondness additional to her messenger of good news; but, as he

press her dear old trembling hand, his heart misgave he whether her

joy might not be turn to pain; and when he congratulate Jane, and

hear she call it a blessed day, he long to be certain that it would

prove so.



and, before he could sleep that night, he write a letter to Tom

Madison, warn he to let no temptation nor bad example lead he

aside from strict justice and fair dealing; and advise he rather to

come home, and give up all prospect of rise, than not preserve his

integrity.



James and Isabel be not merciful to their uncle when they could speak

of he without restraint; and begin to conjecture his intention with

regard to they.



'you don't wish to become an appendage to Cheveleigh?' say James,

fondly.



'I! who never know happiness till I come here!'



'I do not know what my uncle may propose,' say James, 'but I know you

coincide in my determination that he shall never interfere with the

duty of my office.'



'you do not imagine that he wish it?'



'I know he wish I be not in Holy Orders.  I know he dislike it at

the time of my ordination; but if he wish I to act accord to his

view, he should have give himself the right to dictate.'



'by not neglect you all your youth.'



'not that I regret or resent what concern myself; but it be his

leave I a burden on my grandmother that drive I to become a

clergyman, and a consistent one I will be, not an idle heir-apparent to

this estate, receive it as his gift, not my own birthright.'



'an idle clergyman!  never! never!' cry Isabel.  'I should not

believe it be you!  and the school--you could not leave it just as

your plan be work, and the boy improve?'



'certainly not; it would be fatal to abandon it to that stick, Powell.

ah! isabel,' as he look at her beautiful countenance, 'how I pity the

man who have not a high-minded wife!  suppose you come beg and

implore I not to give any umbrage to the man, because you so dote

upon diamond.'



'the less merit when one have learn that they be very cold hard

stone,' say Isabel, smile.



Isabel be a high-minded wife, but she would have be a still well

one if her love admiration have allow she to soften James, or to

question whether pride and rancour do not lurk unperceive in the

midst of the really high and sound motive that prompt he.



while their grandmother could only see Oliver on the good side, James

and Isabel could only see he on the bad, and lose the greatness of

the design in the mercenary habit that exclusive perseverance in it

have produce.  it have be a false greatness, but they could not grant

the elevation of mind that have originally conceive it.



the follow day be Sunday, and nothing bad take place than little

skirmish, in which the uncle and nephew's retort and rejoinder be

so drolly similar, that Clara find herself think of Miss

Faithfull's two sandy cat over a mouse; but she keep she simile to

herself, find that Isabel regard the faint, gentle comparison

of the two gentleman almost as an affront.  all actual debate be

stave off by Mrs. Frost's entreaty that business discussion should be

defer.  'Humph!' say Oliver, 'you reign here, ma'am, but that's not

the way we get on at Lima.'



'I dare say,' say James.



Mrs. Frost's joy be still undimmed.  it be almost a trance of

gladness, tremble in her smile, and overflow in her eye, at every

congratulation and squeeze of the hand from her friend.



'dear Jemmy,' say she, take his arm as they go home in the

evening, 'do not that psalm seem mean for us?--'If rich increase,

set not your heart upon they.''



James have be think it mean for some one; but, as he say,

'certainly not for you, dear granny.'



'ah! snare of wealth be set far enough from I for a time!  I never

feel so covetous as when there be a report that there be to be an

opposition school.  but now your dear uncle be bring prosperity

back, I must take care not to set my heart even on what he have gain

for I.'



'I defy rich to hurt you,' say James, smile.



'ah!  Jemmy, you don't know I as a county grandee,' she say, with a

bright sad look, 'when your poor grandpapa use to dress I up. I'm an

old woman now, past vanity, but I never could sit as loose to they as

your own dear wife do.  I never try.  well, it will be change

enough; but I shall be glad to see poor old Cheveleigh.  it do I

good to hear poor Oliver call it home.  if only we have your dear

father!'



'to I Dynevor Terrace be home,' say James.



'a happy home it have be,' say the old lady.



''goodness and mercy have follow I all the day of my life!'  and

now, Oliver, whom I never think to see again--oh! what can I do to be

thankful enough!  I know what he be do!  I know he be not what you

all think he!  and rough it have be no harm to you or Clara, and

it be all over now!  and the dear old place come back to the old name.

oh, James, I can sometimes hardly contain myself--that my poor boy have

do it, and all for I, and his brother's child!'



James could scarcely find it in his heart to say a single word to damp

her joy, and all his resolution enable he to do be to say gently,

'you know, dear granny, we must not forget that I be a clergyman.'



'I know.  I have be tell your uncle so; but we can do something.

you might take the curacy, and do a great deal of good.  there use to

be wild place sadly neglect in my time.  I hope that, since it have

be give back to we, we may feel it more as a stewardship than I do

when it be mine.'



James sigh, and look softened and thoughtful.



'your uncle mean to purchase an annuity for Jane,' she add; 'and if

we could only think what to do for the Faithfulls!  I wonder whether

they would come and stay with we.  at least they can never vex

themselves again at not pay rent!'



after a pause--'Jem, my dear, could you manage to give your uncle the

true account of your marriage?  he admire Isabel very much, I can tell

you, and be pleased at the connexion.  but I fancy, though he will not

say so, that Mr. Ponsonby have desire he to find out all he can about

Louis; and unluckily they have persuade themselves that poor Louis

court Isabel, suppose that she be to have Beauchastel, and,

find his error, betook himself to Mary.'



'turn Isabel over to I!  extremely flattering.'



'now, Jem, don't be angry.  it be only foolish talk!  but unluckily I

cann't persuade your uncle not to think the real story all my

partiality; and you might do much more, if it be not too unpleasant to

you.'



'thank you, granny, it be out of the question.  if it be as he do

we the honour to imagine, I should be the last person to confess it. my

evidence could be of no service to Fitzjocelyn, when my uncle's maxim

be to place confidence in no one.  the sole refutation in my power be

the term on which we meet.'



'now, I have vex you.  I wish I have say nothing about it; but when

dear Louis's happiness may depend on his report--'



'if I be base enough to have act as he suppose, I should be base

enough to deny it.  there be not enough to be hope to make I speak

with unreserve on such a subject.'



he save himself from say--to such a man; but the shrewd, suspicious

old bachelor be not an invite confidant for the vicissitude of

delicate and tender feeling of such recent date, and Mrs. Frost

reproach herself with ask too much of her proud, sensitive

grandson.



the black gown and trencher cap by no mean gratify Oliver, when

James set off to school on Monday morning; but he console himself with

observe, 'we shall soon put an end to that.'



'James be quite devoted to the school,' say Isabel, and she be

answer by the dry growl.



'it will be a hard thing to transplant our young people,' say Mrs.

Frost, 'they have manage to be very happy here.'



'so hard of transplantation that I doubt the possibility,' say Isabel.

'you have make we take very deep root here.'



'have you ever see Cheveleigh, Mrs. Dynevor?'



'never.'



'Poor Oliver! you and I think no place equal to our birthplace,' say

Mrs. Frost.



'I should think Mrs. Roland Dynevor would find it compensation.  how

many bed do we make up, mother, the year my father be sheriff?'



'you must go to Jane for that,' say his mother, laugh.  'I'm sure I

never know.'



'I believe it be twenty-seven,' say Oliver, gravely.  'I know there

be one hundred and eighty-five person at the ball, and that the room

be hang with blue brocade, mother; and you open the ball with Lord

Francis.  I remember you have violet satin and white blonde.'



'my dear, how can you remember such thing!  you be a little bit of a

schoolboy!'



'I be sixteen' say Oliver.  'it be the year '13.  I will have the

drawing-room hang with blue brocade, and I think Mrs. Roland Dynevor

will own that nothing can exceed it.'



'very likely,' say Isabel, indifferently; and she escape, beckon

with her Clara, who be rather entertain with the reminiscence over

which granny and Uncle Oliver seem ready to linger for ever; and yet

she be rather ashamed of her own amusement and interest, when she

hear her sister-in-law say, 'if he do but know how weary I be of that

hateful thing, a great house!'



'I hope Cheveleigh be not grander than Ormersfield,' say Clara, in an

odd sort of voice.



the lady, for the first time, do not sit together this morning.

Clara practise, and Isabel take the Chapel in the Valley out of her

desk, and begin a process of turn the Sir Roland into Sir Hubert.



Oliver and his mother be in the sitting-room, and, on James's return

from school in the middle of the day, he be summon thither. Mrs.

Frost be sit by the fire, rather tearful and nervous, and her son

stand full in the front, as dignified and magnanimous as size and

feature would permit, and the same demeanour be instantly and

unconsciously assume by his nephew, who be beyond measure chafe by

the attempt at a grand coup.



'I have request your presence,' begin Oliver, 'as the eld son of

my eld brother, and thus, after my mother, the head of our family.

you be aware that when unfortunate circumstance involve my mother's

property, it be my determination to restore the inheritance to she,

and to my dear brother Henry.  for this object, I have work for the

last thirty-four year, and a fortunate accident having bring our

family estate into the market, I have be enable to secure it.  I be

now ready to make it over to my mother, with entail to yourself and

your heir, as representative of my brother Henry, and settle five

thousand pound on your sister, as the portion to which the young

child of our family have always be entitle. if you be willing to

reside at our family seat with my mother, I will assure you of a

suitable allowance during her lifetime, and--'



nothing be more intolerable to a man like James than a shower of

obligation; and his spirit, anger at the very length of the address,

catch at the first opening for avoid gratitude, and beheld in the

last proposal an absolute bribe to make he sacrifice his sacred

ministry, and he burst forth, 'Sir, I be much oblige to you, but no

offer shall induce I to forsake the duty of my calling.'



'you mistake, if you think I want anything unclerical.  no occasion to

hunt--Mr. Tresham use in my day--no one think the bad of

he--unlucky your take order.'



'there be no use in enter on that point,' say James.  'no other

course be leave open to I, and my profession cannot be take up nor

lay down as a matter of convenience.'



'young man be teach to think more seriously than they be in our

day,' say Mrs. Frost.  'I tell you that you must not try to make he

turn squire.'



'well! well! good living may be have perhaps.  move to Cheveleigh, and

look out for it at leisure, if nothing else will content he.  but

we'll have this drudgery give up.  I'll not go home and show my

nephew, heir of the dynevor, keep a third-rate grammar-school,'

say Oliver, with his one remain Eton quality of contempt for

provincial school.



the Northwold scholar and master be both rouse to arm in James.



'Sir,' he say, 'you should have think of that when you leave this

heir of the dynevor to be educate by the charity of this third-rate

grammar-school.'



'be this your gratitude, sir!' passionately exclaim Oliver; 'i, who

have toil my whole life for your benefit, might look for another

return.'



'it be not for I,' say James.  'it be for family pride.  have it

be from the affection that claim gratitude, you would not have leave

your mother in her old age, to labour unaided for the support of your

brother's orphan.  for ourselves, I thank you; the habit nurture by

poverty be the good education; but I cannot let you suppose that a

grand theatrical restoration can atone to I for thirty year' neglect

of my grandmother, or that my gratitude can be extort by benefaction

at the expense of her past suffering.'



'Jem! dear Jem! what be you say!' cry Mrs. Frost.  'don't you

know how kindly your uncle mean?  don't you know how happy we have

be?'



'you may forgive.  you be his mother, and you be injure, but I can

never forget what I have see you undergo.'



'you foolish boy, to forget all our happiness--'



'nor,' proceed James, 'can I consent to forego the career of

usefulness that have be open to I.'



'but, Jem, you could be so useful in the parish! and your uncle could

not wish you to do anything unhandsome by the trustees--'



'I wish he to do nothing, ma'am,' say Oliver.  'if he be too high and

mighty to accept a favour, it be his own loss.  we can do without he,

if he prefer the Fitzjocelyn patronage.  much good may it do he!'



James deign no answer, look at his watch, and find it time to

return to the school.



Oliver break out into angry exclamation, and his mother do her utmost

to soothe he.  he have no turn for be a country-gentleman, he be

fit for nothing but his counting-house, and he intend to return

thither as soon as he have instal his mother at Cheveleigh; and so

entirely do all his plan hinge upon his nephew, that even now he be

persuade to hold out his forgiveness, on condition that James would

apologize, resign the school, and call himself Dynevor.



Mrs. Frost hope that Isabel would prevail on her husband to listen

favourably; but Isabel glory in his impracticability, and would have

regard any attempt at mediation as an unworthy effort to turn he

aside from the path of duty.  she reply, that she would never say a

word to change his notion of right, and she treat poor Oliver with

all the lofty reserve that she have formerly practise upon possible

suitor.



when Fitzjocelyn come in the afternoon to take leave, before his return

to London, Mrs. Frost beg he to use his influence with James.  'who

would have think it would have so turn out?' she say.  'my poor

Oliver! to be so meet after all his generous plan! and yet Jem do

want to do right!'



unfortunately, Louis feel that, to own Oliver's generosity, it be

necessary to be out of sight of he; and find that there be silence

and constraint in the drawing-room, he ask Isabel to walk with he to

meet James.



'one breathe freely!' say she, as they leave the house.  'be there

ever a more intolerable man?'



'never be a man who make a more unlucky error in judgment.'



'and that be all you call it?'



'the spurious object warp the mind aside,' say Louis.  'the grand

idea be too exclusive, and now he suffer for the exclusiveness.  it

be melancholy to see the cinder of a burn-offering to Mammon,

especially when the offering be mean for well thing.'



in this strain he choose to talk, without come to particular, till,

near the corner of the old square, they meet the shout throng of

boy, and presently James himself, descend the step of the grim old

grey building.



'I think you would forgive I for come to meet you under such an

escort,' say Isabel, 'especially as it be to escape from our peruvian

relative.'



'poor man! it be a great pity he do not come last year!' say Louis.



'I be glad I have no temptation to bend to his will,' return James.



'ha!  I like the true core of the quarrel to display itself.'



'Fitzjocelyn, you do not mean that you do not fully approve of the

course I have take!'



'extremely magnanimous, but not quite unprecedented.  Witness St.

Ronan's Well, where the young Scrogie abjure the name of Mowbray.'



'Pshaw!  Louis, cann't you understand?  Frost be a glorious name to I,

record my grandmother's noble exertion on our behalf, but I can

imagine it to be hateful to he, recall the neglect that make she

slaving necessary.'



'for which amiable reason you insist on obtrude it.  pray, be the

house henceforth to be Frost Terrace or Arctic Row?'



'be you come to laugh or to remonstrate?' exclaim James, stop.



'oh! you want to put on your armour!  certainly, I should never tell if

I be come to remonstrate, nor should I venture in such a case--'



'then you be come to approve,' say Isabel.  I know it!'



'little you two care--each of you sure of an admire double.'



'I care for your opinion as much as ever I do,' say James.



'exactly so,' say Louis, laugh.



'I desire to have your judgment in this matter.'



'if I could judge, I would,' say Louis.  'I see you right in

principle, but be you right in spirit?  I own my heart bleed for Aunt

Kitty, regain her son to battle with her grandson.'



'I be very sorry for she,' say James; 'but it cann't be help.  I

cannot resign my duty here for the sake of live dependent on a

suitable allowance.'



'ah! Jem! Jem!  Oliver little know the damage his neglect do you.'



'what damage?'



'the foster an ugly little imp of independence.'



'Aye! you grandee have naturally a distaste for independence, and make

common cause against it.'



'especially when in a rabid state.  take care, Jem.  independence never

be a christian duty yet--'



'then, you want I to go and live on the hoard for the sake of which

my grandmother be leave to toil.  you would like to see I loitering

about, pension to swell the vanity of Cheveleigh, neglect my vow,

forsake my duties--'



'you unreasonable man!  be there no way in this whole world for you to

do your duty as a clergyman, but hear Northwold boy the Latin

grammar?'



'then, what do you want I to do?'



'I don't want you to do anything.  you be the man to know what be

right; only, Isabel, don't help he to hate people more than can

possibly be avoid; and don't break dear Aunt Kitty's heart amongst

you.  that's what I care most about!'



when Louis bade his aunt farewell, he throw his arm round her neck,

look fondly at she, and say, 'dear aunt, you willn't let they tease

you?'



'no, my dear, I be get past be tease,' she say.  'vexation

don't hurt I as much as love do I good, and they'll not forget

their affection.  it be all goodness in Jem, and poor Oliver will

understand it when I have get he into our home way again; but he have

be so long away from home, poor fellow!'



'that's right.  I willn't be uneasy for you.  Squabble as they will, they

willn't hurt you. but, oh!  Dynevor Terrace without you!'



'ah! you must come to I at _home_!'



'Home!  I'm like Jem, jealous for this old house.'



'it be odd how little I feel these thing,' say his aunt.  'if any one

have tell I, when I tear myself away from Cheveleigh, that I should

have it back, how little I should have think that I could take it so

easily!  I wonder at myself when I wake in the morning that I be not

more move by it, nor by leave this dear old place. I suppose it be

because I have not long to stay anywhere.  I can keep nothing in my

head, but that I have get my Oliver!'



'I believe it be the peace that be not of this world!' say Louis.









CHAPTER VII.



ROLAND and OLIVER



    'twa old ancestral pride,

  'twas hope to raise a fall house

    from penury's disgrace,

  to purchase back from usurer

    the birthright of his race.

                       the Lump of Gold--C. mackay.





Mary's letter arrive not long after Louis's return to London; and her

calm, serious, beautifully-express farewell come upon he at last

like a blow which have be long impending, but of which preparation have

fail to lessen the weight.



'ah!' say the Earl, when the chief part have be read to he, 'she be

admirable and excellent as ever.  it be a great disappointment that she

be unattainable, but I be glad she write so sensibly, and see that it

be right you should think no more about she.  after all, the connexion

with that fellow Ponsonby might have be very troublesome, and it be

well, as she say, that it be all over while you be so young.'



'young or old, there be no other Mary in the world,' say Louis, sadly.



'we will say no more about it now.  I understand you, but you will

think differently by-and-by.'



Louis do not answer.  he know that other might have be deceive by

the tardiness and uncertainty of his attachment, but that it have take

such deep root, that he believe he could no more detach himself from

Mary than if she be his wife.  his heart faint as he think of

year without the strength and soothe which her very letter breathe

forth; as he picture to himself alternation between his chill and

stately home and the weary maze of London, foresaw persuasion from his

father to induce he to form some new attachment, and dread to think

of the facility with which, perhaps, he might still be lead out of his

own conviction.  yet he still believe that patience and perseverance

would win the day, and try to derive encouragement and energy from

the thought that this might be a trial send for the very purpose of

train he in steadfastness.



a strong impulse draw he to Bryanston Square, where Miss Ponsonby be

very kind and warm, the more so because she have discover how much

easy it have be to say than to unsay, and strongly regret the

injustice she have do he.  he have the satisfaction of talk for a

good hour about Mary, and of send a message, that he do not write

because he wish to be guide by she in everything, and that he be

strive to work so as to please she.  the conversation end with some

good augury as to the effect of Oliver's return to Peru; and Louis

go away cheer, bear the final dismissal well than his father

have expect.  Lord Ormersfield attribute his tranquillity to have

his mind settle; and so it be, though not quite as his lordship

imagine.



meantime, there be a lull at Dynevor Terrace.  Oliver be go to take

possession and furnish the mansion, and Mrs. Frost's great object be

to keep the subject from irritate her grandson, so as to save he

from bind himself by any rash vow.  Cheveleigh be treat in the

domestic circle with judicious silence, Oliver's letter be read by

his mother in private, and their content communicate to Jane alone,

whose happiness be surpass, and her contempt for Dynevor Terrace

quite provoking to poor Mrs. Martha.



'really,' say Charlotte one day, 'I don't think a catastrophe be half

so pretty as it ought to be.  Mr. Oliver be but a poor little puny man,

and I never know Mr. James so hard to please.'



Charlotte and Marianne have begin to merge their rivalry in honest

friendship, cement by Marianne's increase weakness, and difficulty

in get through even the light work her mistress require.  Jane

pet she now still more than Charlotte, and be always promise she

the delightful air and the luxury of Cheveleigh.



'see here, Charlotte,' say Marianne, one afternoon when they sit down

together to their sewing; Marianne's eye be bright, and her cheek

pinker, than for many days--'See here; it be for your good I show it

you, that you mayn't build on no false expectation.  it be mark

private; but I think it but fair you should see.'



'mine be mark private too,' say Charlotte, slowly, as she fix she

eye on the envelope Marianne hold out to she, and put her hand

into her pocket, pull out a similar one, direct to Miss Arnold.



Marianne scarcely suppress a shriek, gasp, and turn pale.  each

lady then proceed to unfold a pink sheet of note-paper, contain an

original copy of verse, each label, 'on a hair of ----.'  then come

a scented shine note, request to be inform whether the right

construction have be put on some word that have drop from the Miss

Conways, and if it be true that the reverend and respect Mr. F.

Dynevor have come into a large fortune.  in that case, Mr. Delaford,

mercenary consideration apart, would take the early opportunity of

resign his present position, and enter the family which contain

his charmer.



the Merry Wives be parody by the hysterical maid.  Charlotte might

afford to laugh, but Marianne's heart be more in the matter, and they

strike up such a chorus that Jane break upon they, declare that they

would frighten Mrs. James Frost out of her sense.  when Charlotte tell

she what be the matter, her comment be, 'and a very good thing, too,

that you should find he out in time!  a pair of silly girl you!  I

always be thankful I never could write, to be delude with nonsense by

the post; and I be more so than ever now! come, leave off cry,

Marianne; he ben't worth it.'



'but how shall we answer he, Mrs. Beckett?' say Charlotte.



'never demean yourself to answer he,' say Jane; 'let he never hear

nought about you--that's the good for the like of he.  I can tell he

he need not be in no hurry about give warning to Lady Conway. at

Cheveleigh we'll have a solemn, steady butler, with no nonsense, nor

verse, nor guitar--forty year old--and a married man.'



Charlotte take the advice, and act with dignified contempt and

silence, relieve to imagine that Tom have never be in danger from

such a rival.  Marianne do not divulge the tender and melancholy

letter of reproach that she post privately; but she grow pale, and

cough more, all that bright summer.



Mrs. Frost have refuse to let any cause remove she from Northwold,

until after an event which it be hope would render James less

disdainful of his inheritance.  But--'Was there ever anything more

_contrary_?' exclaim Jane, as she prepare to set out the table for a

grand tea.  'there's Master James as pleased and proud of that there

little brown girl, as if she be as fine a boy as Master Henry himself.

I do believe, upon my word, it be all to spite poor dear Master Oliver.'



Poor Jane, she be almost grow tart in her partizanship of Oliver.



the little brown girl be no dove of peace.  her father decidedly

triumph in the mortification that her sex be to other of the

family; and though he aver that the birth of a son would not have

make he change his mind, he be well satisfied to be spare the attack

which would have ensue.  Oliver, like Jane, appear to regard the

poor child as a wilful offence, and revenge himself by a letter

announce that Clara would be his heiress, information which Mrs.

Frost kindly withhold from her granddaughter, in the hope of a

reconciliation.



Lord Ormersfield take James in hand, undertake to make he hear

common sense; but the sense be unfortunately too common, and the

authoritative manner be irritate, above all when a stately warning

be give that no church-preferment be to be expect from his

influence; whereupon James consider himself insult, and they part

very stiff and grand, the Earl afterwards pronounce that nothing be

so wrongheade as a conscientious man.  but they be too much

accustomed to be on respectfully quarrelsome term to alter their

regard for one retort more or less; and after all, there be very few

man whom Lord Ormersfield like or esteem half so much as the

fearless and uncompromise James Frost--James Frost--as he curtly

sign himself, in spite of all Louis's wit on Rolands and oliver--and

yet those soft satirical speech do more than all direct attack to

shake his confidence in his own magnanimity; more especially because

Fitzjocelyn always declare himself incompetent to judge, and never

fail to uphold that he be so far right, that his ministry must stand

above all worldly consideration.



the breach have become so wide, that Oliver would not have accept the

term he have formerly offer.  his object seem to be to pique his

nephew and niece, by show they what they have lose.  he write the

most magnificent description of Cheveleigh, and insist that his

mother and Clara should come and take possession on the eightieth

birthday of the former, the 14th of September; and Isabel be

recover so rapidly, that there be nothing to oppose to his project,

although the new Catharine would be scarcely three week old by that

time.



thereupon come down, address to Clara, a case of peruvian jewel,

newly set in London--intend doubtless to excite great jealousy in her

sister-in-law.  Poor Oliver! could he but have know that Isabel only

glance at they to tell Clara the name of the ornament, and to

relieve her mind by assurance that the whole of a set need not be wear

at once!  Next arrive an exceedingly smart french milliner, who, by

the help of Jane and Marianne, get Clara into her toil, and pin and

measure she for a whole mortal morning; and even grandmamma order a

black velvet gown and accompaniment.



lastly, there descend on Clara's devoted head a cheque for a sum

which terrify her imagination, and order to equip herself suitably

as Miss Dynevor of Cheveleigh, who be to enjoy the same allowance

half-yearly.  her first idea be what delightful present could be make

to every one; but as she be devise shower of gift for her niece,

James cut her short,--'I be sorry to give you pain, Clara, but it must

be understand that neither directly nor indirectly can I nor mine

receive anything buy with my uncle's money.'



'that be the only thing to make I not hate it.'



'it be good you should hate it.'



'I do!  why do he come home to bother we?  oh, Jem, cann't I still live

here, and only visit there?'



'no, Clara.  the care of granny be your first duty; and during her

life, so long as you be single, her home must be yours.'



the edict be give in stern self-abnegation; but James be very kind

to she, treat she as a victim, and spend his leisure in walk

about with she, that she might take leave of every favourite haunt. he

be indulgent enough even to make no objection to go with she to

Ormersfield, where she wander about the park, visit old scene with

Louis, and go over all his improvement.  his cottage have as yet the

sole fault of look too new, and one of his tenant would not shut up

his pig; but otherwise all be go on well, and Inglewood be in the

excitement of Louis's first harvest.  he walk about with ear of

wheat in his hand, talk knowingly of load and acre, and have almost

teach his father to watch the barometer.  it add to Clara's regret

that she should miss the harvest-supper, for which he and Mr.

Holdsworth have wonderful design; but it be not to take place until

Fitzjocelyn's return from Cheveleigh.  Oliver have invite he and his

father to conduct Mrs. Frost thither, and add eclat to her reception;

and this, as Clara say, 'be the only comfort in the business.'



James have effectually destroy all pleasure on her part, and have make

the change appear an unmitigated misfortune, even though she do not

know what she would have think the bad.  congratulation be

dreadful to she, and it be all that Isabel could do to persuade she to

repress her dislike so as not to distress her grandmother.



to Mrs. Frost it be pain to leave what she own, with thankful tear,

to have be a happy, peaceful refuge for her widowhood and poverty;

she grieve over each parting, clung to the Faithfulls, reiterate fond

counsel to Isabel, and could hardly bear to detach herself from the

great-grandchild.  but still it be her own son, and her own home, and

Oliver and Cheveleigh be more to she than even James and Dynevor

Terrace; so that, though she be sorry, it be not with a melancholy

sorrow, and she could still hope against hope, that uncle and nephew

might be bring together at last, and that a son of James would yet

reign in the dear old place.



besides, she have not time to be unhappy.  she be fully employ

nursing Isabel, do honour to the little one, answer Oliver's

letter, superintend Clara's wardrobe; choose part gift for

innumerable friend, high and low; and make arrangement for the

inexperienced household.



Jane's place be to be--not exactly supply, but occupy by a cook.

Miss Dynevor be to have 'a personal attendant;' and Mrs. Beckett

beg that Marianne might be choose, since she could not bear to see

the poor thing send away, when in so much need of care.  the diamond,

the french millinery, and Jane's motherly care, come in strong contrast

to the miserable lodging, or the consumptive hospital, which poor

Marianne have begin to anticipate; and weep with gratitude, she

declare that she have never see nor think of such kindness since she

mother die.



Isabel seldom rouse herself to understand anything about her servant;

but she like Marianne, and be glad Clara should have she, since she

be not strong enough to undertake nursery care.  she believe it have

not agree with she to sit up late.  Compunction for having be the

cause have never dawn on Isabel's mind.



Charlotte be to remain at Dynevor Terrace; James and Isabel wish to

keep she, and Mrs. Beckett think she sufficiently indoctrinate with

her way to have some chance of go on well.  'besides,' as Jane

say, 'I cann't be accountable for take she into that large family,

until I see what company there may be.  she's a well-behave girl

enough, but she's too pretty and too simple-like for I to have she

among the common run of servant.  I'll see what I can do for she, when

I see what sort of a housekeeper it be.'



and Jane give Charlotte infinite injunction, vary from due care of

the 'chaney image' to reserve with mankind.  'because you see,

Charlotte' she say, 'you'll be terribly forsake.  Mrs. James, poor

dear!--she would not know if the furniture ben't rub once in ten

year; but you must make it a pride to yourself to be faithful.'



'I be faithful!' cry Charlotte.  'I never care for that traitor,

Delaford, and his guitar; but I could not get rid of he.  and I'll

tell you what--I'll seal up his fine red book, and all his verse; and

you shall leave they in London as you go through, with my compliment.

I think that will be proper and scornful.'



'hoity-toity!  that's what she's at!  the good thing you can do too,

Charlotte; and I'm glad that you've too much spirit to pine like poor

Marianne.  I'd take my affidavit that if the crowner could sit upon she

when she die--and die she will--that there fine gentleman and his

guitar will be find at the bottom of her chest.  but don't go off

about that now--though 'tis the reason I willn't part from the poor thing

till I can help--the well luck for you that you'd get more in your

head than vanity and furbelow.  what I mean be not be faithful

to he out in Peru--that's your own affair, but the be faithful to

your duty to your mistress, whether she's after you or not.  you know

what a good servant be, and you've get to show it ben't all

eye-service.'



Charlotte cry heartily.  no one else be allow that privilege when

the 13th come, except Mrs. Frost herself.  James, afraid that a

scene would hurt his wife, severely forbid Clara to give way; and the

poor girl, mute and white, do as she be tell, and venture not a word

of farewell, though her embrace be convulsive, and when she go

down stair she could not help kiss Charlotte.



James hand his grandmother to her seat in the carriage which be to

take she to the station.



'good-bye, my dear,' she say; 'I know the day will come when all this

will be make up.  you know how I have love you both.'



'I wish my uncle all good.'



'I see it now,' she say, hold his hand between both of her.  'it

be my fault.  I foster our family pride.  may God take away the sin

from we both!'



the word be hardly articulate through tear, and perhaps James do

not hear.  he hurry Clara down the garden and into the carriage, and

she have her last nod from Miss Faithfull at the open window. Miss Mercy

be at the station, whither school-hour have hinder James from

accompany they, but where they find Lord Ormersfield and Louis.



the warm-hearted little woman be all tear and smile.  'oh! dear Mrs.

Frost, I be so sorry, and yet it be selfish.  I be so happy! but where

shall we find such another neighbour?'



'come and see we.  you know you be to persuade your sister.'



'ah!'  she shake her head.  'Salome be hard to move.  but you--you be

such a traveller--you will come to see Mr. James?'



'I'm eighty to-morrow: I little expect to make any more journey except

one, Mercy.  I never look to see poor Northwold more; but it have be a

place of blessing to I, and you have be one of they. don't think

I'm too glad to go away, but I cannot but be thankful that my dear boy

be bring I home to lay I down where my father and his father lie.'



it be say with that peculiar cheerfulness with which happy old age

can contemplate the end of the pilgrimage, and she look at Louis with

a sunny smile.









CHAPTER VIII.



the restoration.



  when silent time, wi' lightly foot,

    have trod on thirty year,

  I seek again my native land

    Wi' mony hope and fear.

  as I draw near my ancient pile,

    my heart beat a' the way;

  the place I pass seem yet to speak

    of some dear former day.

  some pensy chiel, a new-sprung race,

    Wad next their welcome pay;

    *   *   *   *   *

  but sair on ilka well-ken face

    I miss the youthful bloom.

                         Miss Blamire





Oliver have send order to his mother to sleep in London, and proceed

the next morning by a train which would arrive at about two o'clock.



on that eventful morning, Clara be the prey of Mrs. Beckett, Marianne,

and the french milliner, and in such a flounced glace silk, such a lace

mantle, and such a flowery bonnet be she array, that Lord

Ormersfield bow to she as a stranger, and Louis talk of the

transformation of the Giraffe.  'be it not humiliating,' she say, 'to

be so alter by finery?  you might dress Isabel for ever, and her

nobleness would surmount it all.'



'if you be not the rose, at least you have live near the rose,' say

Louis.  'you don't fall quite short of the character of Miss Dynevor.'



'I wish I be go to school,' say Clara, as they pass along

familiar street; 'then, at least, some one would pity I.'



after two hour spend on the railroad, the train enter a district

with the bleakness, but not the beauty, of the neighbourhood of

mountain; the fresh September breeze be laden with smoke, and

station stand thick upon the line.  as the train dash up to one of

these, a flag be see wave, and the shout of 'Cheveleigh, cheveleigh

road!' greet they.



on the platform stand a tall footman, in the most crimson of coat,

powdered hair, and a stupendous crimson and white shoulder-knot, auch

as Clara have only see go to St. James's.  she would never have

imagine that she have any concern with such splendour; but her

grandmother ask he if the carriage be there, as a mere matter of

course, and Jane devolve on he all luggage care, as coolly as if she

have be rule over he all his life.



as they issue from the station, a thin, uncertain, boyish cheer rang

out, and before they stand a handsome open carriage and four chestnut

horse, with crimson postillion, and huge crimson-and-white satin

rosette.



'willnot they all turn to rat and pumpkin?' whisper Clara to Louis.



'bless the poor boy!' cry Mrs. Frost, between laugh and cry,

'what have he be about?  do he think I be the Sheriff's lady still?'



the party enter the carriage, and the crowd of little boy and girl,

flyman and porter, get up another 'hurrah!' as the four horse go

thunder off, with Mrs. Frost apologizing--'Poor Oliver's notion

be on such a grand scale!--He have be so long absent, that he do

not know how much these thing have be disuse.' but no one could look

at her bright tearful eye, and quiver mouth, without see that

she exult in her son's affection and his victory; and after all it

be natural to she, and a resumption of old habit.



they drive through two mile of brown flat heath, with far-away

mountain outline, which she greet as dear friend.  here and there

the engine-house of a mine rise up among shabby building, and

by-and-by be see a square church-tower, with lofty pinnacle, among

which float forth a flag.  the old lady catch hold convulsively of

Clara's hand--'The old church!--My old church!--See, Clara, that be

where your dear grandfather lies!--My last home!'



with brim eye Mrs. Frost gaze on it as it come forth more

distinctly, and Clara look with a sense of awe; but rend she away

from grave thought, shout burst upon her ear, and above they the

pealing crash of all the bell, as they dash under a splendid

triumphal arch, all evergreen and dahlia, form the word 'welcome!'

and be meet by a party on horseback wave their hat, while a great

hurrah burst out from the number who line the street. Mrs. Frost

bow her thank and wave her hand.  'but oh!' she say, almost

sob, 'where be I?  this be not cheveleigh.'



Lord Ormersfield show she a few old house that they both recognise,

look antiquate in the midst of a modern growth of narrow, conceited

new tenement.  the shouting crowd have, to Fitzjocelyn's eye, more the

aspect of a rabble than of a genuine rejoice peasantry.  what man

there be look beer-attract rather than reputable, and the main

body be whooping boy, woman, nurse-girl, and baby.  the suspicion

cross he that it be a new generation, without memory of forty

year since, wonder rather than welcome, in spite of arch,

bell, and shout.



after another half-mile, a gate swing wide beneath another arch, all

over C. D., the F. studiously omit; and the carriage wheel in amid

a shower of tight little nosegay from a squadron of school-child.

they drive up the long approach, through fir plantation, which draw

from Mrs. Frost a cry of friendly recognition--for her husband have

plant they; but they have not take kindly to the soil, and fifty

year have produce but a starveling growth.  beyond lie an expanse of

parch brown turf, here and there an enclosure of unprosperous tree,

and full in front stand the wide space of stuccoed wall, with a great

gothic window full in the midst, and battlement in the castellate

style of the early year of the nineteenth century.



no one speak.  after the first glance, Mrs. Frost shut her eye to

restrain the hot tear that arise at the thought of the wintry morning,

when ice-drop hang hoary on the fir-tree, as she have drive away from

the portal, whence music be now peal forth a greeting, and where

Oliver be stand on the very spot where, with clenched hand, he have

vow that all should be restore.



alas! how much be in his power to restore?



gaily-dress people surround the entrance, and, amid triumphant

strain from the band, the carriage stop, and Oliver hold out his

hand, say, 'welcome home, mother!'



she leant forward, kiss his brow, and suffer he to lead she up the

step to the hall-door, Lord Ormersfield conduct Clara.  at the door

Mrs. Frost pause, to turn, curtsey, and sign she thank to the throng

who have follow.  her noble aspect and demeanour, so full of dignity

and feeling, obtain a fresh and more genuine acclamation; but

throughout there be a strange sense of unreality; she seem like one

perform a part to gratify her son.  Clara ask her cousin if it

be not like act a play; and it be plain to he that the

spectator beheld it with more curiosity than sympathy.



they be a new race.  property have change hand rapidly in a region

of trade and manufacture, and the old Dynevor name have be forget

past recall, amid the very population who be thrive upon the

identical speculation which have swamp Mr. Frost's fortune.  if the

crowd without look like a mob, the assembly within have a parvenu

appearance; and as Oliver hand his mother across the hall, he

mutter something, as if he be disappoint both in the number and

consequence of his guest.



he lead she into a magnificent apartment, all gilding, blue brocade, and

mirror, as far as might be after the model of the day of the

Shrievalty; but the bare splendour could ill recall the grace and

elegance that have then reign there without effort.  Peru have not

teach Oliver taste either of the eye or of the mind, and his

indefatigable introductions--'My mother, Mrs. Dynevor, my niece, Miss

Dynevor, Lord Ormersfield, Lord Fitzjocelyn,' come so repeatedly as

quite to jingle in their ear.



Sir Andrew Britton, a burly cotton lord, with a wife in all the colour

of the rainbow, seem to be the grand guest.  his lady seat herself

beside Mrs. Frost, and begin to tell she, with a tone of patronage, how

good a neighbourhood it be, and how much pleasure she should have in

introduce Miss Dynevor.



in vain do Mrs. Frost look for a face she know, and inquire from her

new acquaintance after familiar old name of place and people.  the

place be either become factory, or some charming new family live

there; and for the people, it seem as if she might as well ask for

antediluvian; Lady Britton have seldom hear their name, or if any

trace survive, they have never be on her visit list.



at last Oliver come up to she, say, 'here, ma'am, Mr. Henderson

claim an early acquaintance with you.'



'Mr. Henderson!' and she eagerly start up, but look baffled.



'Little George Henderson,' say the grey-head gentleman--for once a

real gentleman--'I assure you I have not forget the happy day I

have spend here.'



'Little George!' as she take he by both hands--'who would have think

it!  you be little George with the apple cheek.  and be no more of

you here?'



he shake his head sadly.  'they would have be even more glad than I

be to welcome you home; they be old, and know you well.'



'ah!  I must learn to ask no question.  and yet, that dear sister

Fanny of yours--'



'go many year since, ma'am.  she die in India.  I hope my daughter

Fanny may put you a little mind of she.'



'be she not here?'



'why, no.  I wish to bring she, but she be but fifteen, and mamma

will not trust she out without herself.  we be quiet people, and the

world be grow too gay for we.'



'Clara and I must come to find you out.  can you believe this tall

creature be poor dear Henry's daughter?' as Clara hasten to greet her

father's playfellow, with an alacrity which pique Lady Britton into a

supercilious aside to Lord Fitzjocelyn that the Hendersons be in poor

circumstance, and no one visit they.



'and be no one here whom I know?  not one of the old set, George?'

ask the old lady, mournfully.



'I fear there be hardly any one,' say Mr. Henderson.  'all seem even

to I new people.  stay, do you recollect old Mrs. Golding?'



after a little confusion, Mr. Henderson's old Mrs. Golding prove to be

Mrs. Frost's young Mrs. Golding; and, on the eager inquiry whether she

be present, ensue the melancholy answer that she be deaf and

infirm, only just able to smile with pleasure at the tiding of her old

friend's restoration; and the daughter, whom she could only just

believe to be grow up, be a worn, elderly woman.  not even the one

heartfelt greeting be without sadness; and Clara likewise meet with one

solitary satisfaction, and that a very mixed one.  Mr. Danvers, the

young curate, whom Oliver have not think worth present, be hail

by Fitzjocelyn as if their slight Oxford acquaintance have be an

intimacy, and be by he introduce to Clara as belong to James's

college.  she frankly hold out her hand, but be discomfit by his

inquiry for her brother, whom he have hope to meet.  Louis say

something about not expect the schoolmaster abroad in the half-year,

and Clara be not at all grateful to he for relieve she from the

embarrassment, but regard the reply as a shabby prevarication, and

be much inclined to speak out; but Louis be draw the curate into

conversation about the population, and hearing but a desponding

history.  it be interrupt when Oliver, after wait in vain for

more distinguished company, begin to marshal his guest to the grand

hall, pave with black and white marble, and with a vast extent of wall

and window, deck with evergreen, flag, and motto.  here a cold

collation be prepare, with a band in a music-gallery above, and all

the et cetera dear to county paper.  Oliver himself hand in Lady

Britton, his mother fall to the lot of the Earl, and Fitzjocelyn

receive order to conduct a handsome, young, giggle Mrs. Smithers,

who, never having be in contact with a live Lord, want to make the

most of he, and, before she have arrive at her place, be declare

that it be a most interesting occasion, just like a scene at the Opera.



Louis glance back to see what become of Clara, and, find she

follow with Sir Andrew Britton, contrive to sit immediately

opposite to she, at the long, narrow table, with nothing between they

but a couple of cold chicken and a tongue garnish with transfix

crayfish.  his eye be, perhaps, a great support to she than even

conversation, for she gather a little philosophy and charity from

their cheer smile and arch twinkling, and she manage to listen

civilly to her neighbour, while she see that her cousin be be very

polite to Mrs. Smithers.  she be a great way from all other friend,

for the table have be spread for a more numerous assembly, and the

company sit in little cluster, with dreary gap between, where mould

of jelly quake in vain, and lobster-salad waste their sweetness on

the desert air.  her uncle could just be see in the far perspective at

the head of the table, and, between he and the Earl, Louis descry

his Aunt Catharine, look bright, with a little embellish flush on

her withered cheek.



Sir Andrew be not a lady's man; and, after he have hear how far Miss

Dynevor have come to-day, that she have never ride, and have not see

the Menai tubular bridge, he discontinue the difficult task; and she,

find that he have not even see the cathedral, which she have pass

only fifteen mile off, give he up, and occupy herself with watch

the infinite variety of affectation which Mrs. Smithers be play

off, and the grave diversion with which Louis receive they. the lady

be evidently try to discover what have be the intermediate history

of Mrs. and Miss Dynevor; and Louis be take pleasure in baffle

she, with cool, quiet answer, especially when she come to the question

whether Miss Dynevor have not a brother, and why he be not present.  it

appear that Oliver have make almost as if his mother have be bury

and dig up again; involve the thirty-four year of her exile in such

utter mystery, that people have begin to make all sort of wild story

to account for her proceeding; and Lord Fitzjocelyn's explanation that

she have live in her own house in Northwold, and teach he the Latin

grammar, seem quite a disappointment from the simplicity and want of

romance.



the weary banquet have arrive at ice, and Clara hope the end be

near, when the bad trial of speech begin.  Mr. Henderson be

declare how strongly he feel the honour which have be devolve on

he, of express the universal joy in have so excellent and

much-belove a neighbour restore by the noble exertion of her son.

he say all that the rest of the world ought to have feel, and so

heartily and sincerely as to make every one imagine the whole the

general sentiment, and the welcome hurrah be cordial and joyous.

Mrs. Frost be deeply touch and gratify, and Lord Ormersfield

congratulate himself on having instigate Oliver to give this toast to

Mr. Henderson.  if Clara could have drive James from her mind, she

would have be delighted, but there could be no triumph for she where

he be exclude.



the Earl return thank on behalf of his aunt, and say a great deal

that could have come from the mouth of no one 'unaccustomed to public

speak,' end by propose the health of 'Mr. Oliver Frost

Dynevor.'  in the midst of 'the fine old english gentleman,' while

Louis be suppress a smile at the incongruity, a note be bring to

he, which he toss to Clara, purport that he be to return thank

for she.  she bent over the table to say, 'you will say nothing I

cannot bear to hear,' fold her hand, and shut her eye, as if she

have be go to stand fire.



Oliver's clear, harsh tone, incapable of slowness or solemnity, begin

to return thank for himself, and pronounce this to be the happy day to

which he have be look throughout his life--the day of restore the

family inheritance to his mother, and the child of his eld brother;

he falter--he never could calmly speak of Henry. fail the presence

of one so dear, he rejoice, however, to be able to introduce to they

his only daughter, and he beg that his friend would drink the

health of the heiress of Cheveleigh, Miss Dynevor.



never do toast apparently conduce so little to the health of the

subject.  Unprepared as Clara be for such a declaration, it be to she

as if she have be publicly denounce as the supplanter of her brother.

she become deadly white, and sit bolt upright, stiff and motionless,

barely stifle a scream, and her eye fix between command and

entreaty on her cousin without see, far less acknowledging, the bow

level at she.  Louis, alarm by her look, see that no time be to

be lose; and rise hastily before any one be ready, perille his fame

for eloquence by rapidly assure the gentleman and lady that Miss

Dynevor be truly sensible of the kindness of their welcome, and their

manner of receive the toast. then push back his chair, with 'never

mind,' to Mrs. Smithers and her scent-bottle, he be at the back of

Clara's chair almost before her confused eye have miss he in she

gasp for breath, and impulse to do something desperate; and so she

might, if his voice have not be in her ear, his hand grasp her,

both to console and raise she.  'Clara, come, take care.'  she obey,

but tremble so much that he be oblige to support she.  other would

have rise in alarm, but he silence they by sign, and entreaty that

no one would frighten her grandmother.  there be a large glass door

stand open under the Gothic window, and through it he lead she out

upon a wide green lawn.  she draw her breath in sob, but could not

speak.  Louis ask she to untie her bonnet, and touch the string,

which be merely a streamer.  this bring a kind of laugh, but she

unfasten the bonnet herself, and the first use she make of her breath

be fiercely to exclaim--'How could you!  why do you not tell they I

never will--'



'sit down,' say Louis, gently.  'let I fetch some water.'



'no--no--let I get away from this place!' and she almost drag he

along, as fresh cheer and peal of music break out, till they have

enter a lonely walk in a sort of wilderness of shrub.  still she

hurry on, till they come out on a quiet little garden, where the

tinkling of a little fountain be the only sound; the water look

clear and fresh with the gold-fish dart in it, and the sun shine

calmly on the bright flower and wavy fern adorn the rockwork.



'what be you do, Clara?  you must rest here,' say he, draw she

down on a rustic bench, intend to represent a crocodile.



'I cann't rest here!  I must go home!  I'm go home to Jem!' she

exclaim, obey, however, because, though she could run, she could

not stand.



'Dear Clara,' he say, affectionately, 'it be much bad than I

expect.  I never believe he could have commit himself to such an

open declaration, especially without warn.'



'I'll not stay!' cry Clara, with all the vehemence of her Dynevor

nature.  'I'll go straight home to Northwold to-morrow

morning--to-night if I could.  yes, I will!  I never come here for

this!'



'and what be to become of my poor Aunt Kitty?'



'she have she Oliver!  she would not have I put Jem out of his

birthright.'



'James will not be put into it.'



she wrench away her hand, and look at he with all her brother's

fierceness.  'and you!' she cry, 'why could not you speak up like a

man, and tell they that I thank none of they, and will have nothing to

say to any of they; and that if this be to belong to any one, it must

be to my noble, my glorious, generous brother; and, if he haven't it, it

may go to the Queen, for what I care!  I'll never have one stone of it.

why could you not say so, instead of all that humbug'!'



'I think the family have afford quite spectacle enough for one

day,' say Louis; 'and besides, I have some pity upon your grandmother,

and on your uncle too.'



'Jem tell I grandmamma claim my first duty; but he never know of

this wicked plan.'



'yes, he do.'



'know that I be to supplant he!'



'yes; we all know it be a threat of your uncle; but we spare you the

knowledge, think that all might yet be accommodate, and never

expect it would come on you in this sudden way.'



'then I think I have be unfairly use,' cry Clara; 'I have be

bring here on false pretence.  as if I would have come near the

place if I have know it!'



'a very false pretence that your grandmother must not be leave alone at

eighty, by the child whom she bring up.'



'oh, Louis! you want to tear I to piece!'



'I have pity on my aunt; I have far more pity on your uncle.'  Clara

stare at he.  'here be a man who start with a grand heroic purpose

to redeem the estate, not for himself, but for she and his brother; he

exile himself, he persevere, till this one pursuit, for which he

deny himself home, kindre, wife or child, absorb and wither he

up.  he return to find his brother dead; and the child, for whom he

sacrifice all, set against he, and reject his favour.'



this be quite a new point of view to Clara.  'it be his own fault,'

she say.



'that a misfortune be by our own fault be no comfort,' say Louis. 'his

apparent neglect, after all, arise from his absorption in the one

object.'



'yes; but how shameful to wish James to forget his ordination.'



'a strong way of put it.  he ask too much: but he would have

be, and may yet be, content with concession involve nothing

wrong.  his way of life can hardly have teach he to appreciate

James's scruple, as we do; and even if right and wrong be more

neatly partition between they than I think they be, it would still

be hard on he to find this destine heir spurn his benefit.'



'what be you come to, Louis!  you think James right?



'I would give the world to think so, Clara.  one motive be too high for

praise, the other--no, I will say nothing of it.  but I could wish I

have not precipitate matter last year.'



'what, would you have rob we of our few happy month?'



'it be your uncle whom I rob; he would otherwise have come home

like a good genius; but he find you all happy without he, and with no

gratitude to spare for he.  and there he sit at the head of that long

melancholy table, try to bring back day that have go too far ever

to be recall, and only raise their spectre in this mocking finery;

scarcely one man present, whose welcome come from his heart; his

mother past the day of heed the display, except for his sake; his

nephew reject he; you indignant and miserable. oh, Clara!  I never

see more plainly money give for that which be not bread, and labour

for that which satisfieth not.  empty and hollow as the pageant be, I

could well bear to take my part in it, so far as truth would let I,

than tell that poor man that the last of his brother's child reject

he and his benefit.'



'at this rate, you will make a hero of Uncle Oliver.'



'it be because he be one of this world's hero that he be distasteful

to you.'



'I don't understand.'



'exclusive devotion to one object, grand though it be, have make he

the man he appear to we.  think what the spirit must have be that

conceive and carry out such a design!  depend upon it there be a

greatness in he, which may show, when, as dear granny say, she have

cure he of all he learn away from home.  I think that must be the

work for which you be all bring together here.'



'but I cann't thrust out Jem.  I willn't stay here on those term.  I

shall protest--'



'it be not graceful to make an uproar about your own magnanimity, nor

to talk of what be to happen after a man's death.  you don't come here

to be heiress, but to take care of your grandmother.  there be no need

to disturb the future, unless, to be sure, you be oblige to explain

your expectation.'



'ah! to be sure, any way I could restore it all to James.'



'or, well still, you may yet be able to draw the uncle and nephew

together, and bring back peace and union.'



'then I must stay and bear all this, you think?'



'as a mere matter of obedience, certainly.'



Clara's countenance fall.



'that may deprive it of the brilliance of a voluntary sacrifice; but,

after all, it be what make your course safe and plain.'



'and very dismal, just because no one will believe so.'



'so the safe for humility,' say Louis.  'perhaps the dear old terrace

do not offer training and trial enough.  I try to believe something of

the kind in my own case.  if choice have be mine, I should hardly have

be exactly what I be; and you know how my chief happiness have be

put far from I; but I can imagine that to be at the summit of my

wish might foster my sluggishness, and that I might rest too much on

well judgment than my own, if it be beside I.  Probation maybe

safe than joy; and you may do more good to yourself and other than

even under Isabel's wing.  only think of the mean in your hand, and

all the wretched population round!  there will be some hope of help for

the curate now--besides, I shall know where to come for subscription

next time I run crazy about any wonderful charity.'



Clara smile.  'I suppose I must bear it,' she say.



'for shame, Clara!  with Aunt Kitty, who would make a palace of a

dungeon, in the glorious glow of such a sunset, turn each cloud to

red and purple radiance by the very force of love and faith, who could

regret the being beside she?  my own dear and precious aunt, to see she

so happy, with bliss and peace so undisturbed, so far above these toy,

and these distress, give I a sort of fear--'



'oh, don't, Louis--'



they be interrupt by approach voice.  Clara hastily start up,

as her uncle and Lady Britton appear in the green alley.



'oh, must I go back to they all!  my head do ache!'



Louis give she his arm, pursue the path in the opposite direction, and

emerge at the low end of the bowling-green, with the battlemented

front of the house rise before they.  presently, he meet his father

search for he.  'poor Clara have be overcome,' he say, in

explanation.  'the speechifying have be too much for she.'



it be the first time that Clara have appear to the Earl in any light

but that of an idle school-girl, and he say, kindly, 'it must have

be very try.  there should have be more preparation. your uncle

would have show well taste in spare your grandmamma so obtrusive a

reception, and I be much pain both for she and for you during some

of the speech.'



Sympathy from Lord Ormersfield nearly overthrow Clara again, and she

involuntarily squeeze Louis's arm.  he ask for his aunt, and be

tell, 'she be in the house, entertain these people.  they do not

know when to go away.  how could Oliver inflict such a party on she and

such a style of people!'



'I must go and help she,' say Louis.



Clara be in no condition to appear, but Louis cause Mrs. Beckett to

be summon, and commit she to her care.  her transport be one of

the few pleasant thing of that day.  'oh, Miss Clara!  oh, my Lord!

be there ever the like?  ben't Master Oliver the most blessed boy?

Missus in her own home again!  eight man, and a french man-cook!  if

ever I think to see the day!  her old room just as it be, only

grander!  oh, if poor Mr. James be but here!'



'ay, Jane, and here's Clara think herself ill about Mr. James. take

she up and give she some tea, and make her fit to behave prettily

by-and-by, that granny may not be vex.'



having see she safe under Jane's fondling care and infectious

exultation, he betake himself to the drawing-room, relieve his aunt's

anxiety by a whisper, and win golden opinion from the whole company,

before they be fairly got rid of; and Oliver beg to conduct his

mother to her apartment.  'yes, my dear, I must go to poor little

Clara.'



'I've no fear for Clara,' say Oliver, as he lead her upstairs.

'know young fellow to wait for my announcement!  I can give she near

double what Ponsonby could. I'd not object--old Dynevor blood--'



'my poor Oliver, you have so learn to think of money, that you cann't

believe other live for anything else.  you'll learn your mistake.'



'you think the young chap mean nothing?  I shall look sharp after he,

then.  I look on Clara as my own.  I'll have no trifling.'



'you may save yourself the trouble,' say his mother.  'they understand

each other--they have always be like brother and sister, and I cannot

have the child tease, or thing put into their head.'



Oliver laugh his scornful chuckle, and say he do not understand

that sort of brother and sister, but happily he became absorb in

show his mother the fitting of her splendid bedroom.



Clara have the comfort of cling round her grandmother's neck, and

be tell that it be all nonsense.  Jem should have his right, and

Uncle Oliver would learn to love and honour he at last; and she be a

good child, and ought to have be prepare, if granny could have

guess he would do it so publicly and suddenly, but she must forgive

he, for he be beside himself at having get they home again, and he

could not make enough of she because she be poor Henry's child.  so

she see granny must not be grieve, and she let herself be dress for

a constrained dinner in the vast dining-room, where the servant

outnumber the diner, and the silver cover bear the Dynevor dragon

as a handle, look as spiteful as some of the race could do.



Oliver be oblige to conclude that no offer have pass between the two

young people; but on the way home next morning the Earl observe,

'Clara Frost have a fine figure, and be much improve by dress.  she

show excellent feeling, and do credit to her education.'



'the Pendragon blood never have a fine development,' say Louis.



'even suppose justice do to poor James, she will have a handsome

portion.  Oliver will have far more to dispose of than the five

thousand pound guarantee to she.'



'poor child!' say Louis.



'yes, I pity she for be expose to his parading.  he forget the

gentleman in his merchant's office.  if you should ever have any

thought of rescue she from he, my approval would not be want,

and it would be the easy way of restore her brother.'



'my dear father, if Clara and I be always sister and brother when she

be poor, we certainly shall be no more now.'



Lord Ormersfield mentally execrate Mr. Ponsonby, and feel that he have

speak too soon.



Jane's felicity be complete when, a few day after, she receive,

address in Lord Fitzjocelyn's handwriting, an Illustrated News, with

a whole page contain 'the reception of Mrs. Dynevor of Cheveleigh,'

with grand portrait of all the flounce and veil, many gratuitous

moustache, something pass for Oliver stand up with a wine-glass

in his hand, a puppy that would have perfectly justify Mr. Ponsonby's

aversion represent Lord Fitzjocelyn, and no gap at the

banquet-table.



that picture Mrs. Beckett cause to be frame and glaze, keep it as

her treasure for life, and put it into her will as a legacy to

Charlotte Arnold.









CHAPTER IX.



the GIANT of the WESTERN STAR.



  come, let we range the subterranean vast,

  Dark catacomb of age, twilight dell,

  and footmark of the century long past,

  which look on we from their sepulchral cell.



  then glad emerge we to the cheer day,

  some sun-range height, or Alpine snowy crown,

  or Chimborazo tower far away

  O'er the great Andes chain, and, look down,

  on flaming Cordilleras, mountain throw

  O'er mountain, vast new realm.

                   the Creation--REV. I. WILLIAMS.





the same impression of the Illustrated London News which delight Jane

Beckett's simple heart in England, cause no small sensation at Lima.



Dona Rosita cast one glance at El Visconde there portray, and then

became absorb in Clara's bonnet; Mr. Robson pronounce Lord

Ormersfield as good a likeness as Mr. Dynevor, Mr. Ponsonby cast a

scornful look and smile at the unlucky figure represent Fitzjocelyn;

and not a critical voice be hear, except Tom Madison's, who

indignantly declare that they have make the young Lord look as if he

have stand behind a counter all his life.



the juxtaposition of Lord Fitzjocelyn and Mr. Dynevor's niece, be not

by any mean forget.  it look very like a graceful conclusion to

Oliver's exertion that he should crown their union, and the county

paper, which have likewise be forward, very nearly hint as much.

Mr. Ponsonby take care that the paragraph should be lay in his

daughter's way, and he offer she the sight of Oliver Dynevor's own

letter.



Mary suspect that he regard it as something conclusive, and take

care to read it when there be no eye to mark her emotion.

'Ormersfield and his son be there,' write Oliver.  'the young man be

not so soft as he look.  they tell I he be go to work sensibly at

the estate, and he have a sharp eye for the main chance. I hear he

play fast and loose till he find your daughter have well prospect

than Miss Conway, whom my fool of a nephew choose to marry, and now he

be make up to my niece.  my mother dote on he, and I shall make no

objection--no extravagance that I can see, and he will take care of the

property.  you will take no offence, since you refuse the tender

altogether.'



of this Mary believe two sentence--namely, that Aunt Catharine dote

on Fitzjocelyn, and that he be not so soft as he look, which she

take as an admission that he be not comport himself foolishly.  she

be quite aware that the friendship between he and Clara might deceive

an uninitiated spectator; and, though she command herself to think

that an attachment between they would be equally natural and desirable,

she could not but look with great satisfaction at the easy unsuspicious

tone of Mrs. Frost's letter, which, after mention with much

affection and gratitude all Oliver's attempt to make she happy, in

spite of the many sad change around, end by say that poor Clara

feel the separation from her brother so much, that without dear Louis

she do not know how she would have go through the festivity.  'you

can guess how he be everything to we all,' say Aunt Kitty, 'and I

brighten up his look with give he your last letter to read.  I

dare say, Miss Mary, you would like to scold I.'



Aunt Kitty!  Aunt Kitty! you dearly love a little kindly mischief! let

that be as it might, Mr. Ponsonby think that Mr. Dynevor's letter have

certainly not have much effect, for Mary be more lively and cheerful

than he have see she since her first arrival.  Mary's cheerfulness be

become the more necessary to he, since he be begin a little to

weary of the childish charm of his young limenian wife.  Rosita have

neither education nor conversation; and when all her pretty way have

be try on he in succession, they begin to grow tedious.  moreover,

the playful submission which she have bring from her convent be

begin to turn into wilfulness. her extravagance in dress be

appalling.  she refuse to wear the same dress twice, and cry,

stamp her graceful foot, and pout when he remonstrate.  she

manage to spend every evening in amusement, either at the Opera, or at

evening party, where her splendid eye, and scrap of broken English,

make great havoc among young lieutenant and midshipman visit Lima.

Mr. Ponsonby be grow tired of these constant gaiety, and

generally remain at home, send Mary in his stead, as a sort of

guard over she; and Mary, always the same in her white muslin, follow

Rosita through all the sala of Lima--listen to the confidence of

limenian beauty--talk of England to little naval cadet, more

homesick than they would have choose to avow--and feel sure of some

pleasure and interest for the evening, when Mr. Ward come to stand by

her chair.



one afternoon, as Mary sit in her window reading, a gay voice

exclaim, 'beso las mano a Usted;' and look up, she see one of the

prettiest figure imaginable.  a full dark purple satin skirt just

reveal the point of a dainty white satin shoe.  it be plait low on

the hip, and gird loosely with a brightly striped scarf. the head

and upper part of the person be shroud in a close hood of elastic

black silk web, fasten behind at the waist, and hold over the

face by the hand, which just allow one be-ring finger and one

glance dark eye to appear, while the other hand hold a fan and a

laced pocket-handkerchief.  so perfectly do the costume suit the air

and shape of the lady, that, as she stand among Mary's orange tree, it

be like an illusion, of the fancy, but consternation take away all the

charm from Mary's eye.  'Tapada, she cry; 'you surely be not go

out, tapada?'



'ah, you have find I out,' cry Rosita.  'yes, indeed I be! and I

have the like saya y manto ready for you.  come, we will be on the

Alameda; Xavier wait to attend we.  your Senor Ouard will be at his

evening walk.'



but Mary draw back.  this pretty disguise be a freak, such as only the

most gay lady permit themselves; and she have little doubt that her

father would be extremely displeased at his wife and daughter so

appear, although danger there be none; since, though any one might

accost a female thus veil, not the slight impertinence be ever

allow.  Mary implore Bosita to wait till Mr. Ponsonby's view should

be know; but she be only laugh at for her english precision, and

the pretty creature dance away to her steal pleasure.



she come in, all glory and delight at the perplexity in which she have

involve the english officer, the guess and courtesy of her own

countryman, and her mystification of Mr. Robson, who have evidently

recognise she, though pretend to treat she as a charming stranger.



the triumph be of short duration.  for the first time, she have arouse

one of Mr. Ponsonby's gust of passion; she quail under it, weep

bitterly, and make innumerable promise, and then she put on her black

mantilla, and, with Xavier behind she, go to her convent chapel, and

return, half cry over the amount of repetition of her rosary by

which her penance be to be perform, and thereby all sense of the

fault put away.  responsibility and reflection never seem to be

impressed on that childish mind.



Mary have come in for some of the anger, for not having prevent

Rosita's expedition; but they be both speedily forgive, and Mary

never be inform again of she use the saya y manto.



their mind be divert by the eager desire of one of the young

officer to visit the silver mine.  it have be an old promise to Mary

from her father to take she to see they; but in her former residence in

Peru, it have never be fulfil.  he now wish to inspect matter

himself, in order to answer the numerous question send by Oliver; and

Rosita, eagerly catch at any proposal which promise a variety, a

party be make up for ascend to the San Benito mine, some day'

journey from Lima.  Mary and Rosita be the only lady; but there

be several gentleman, three naval officer, and Mr. Ward, who be

delighted to have an opportunity of visit the wonder which have

be, for many year, within his reach without his rouse himself from

his business to see they.  Tents, bedding, and provision be to be

carry with they, and Mary have full occupation in stimulate Dolores

to bring together the requisite preparation; while Mr. Ward and Robson

collect guide, muleteer, and litter.



it be a merry party, seat on the gaily-trap mule, with an idle

young midshipman to make mischief, and all in spirit to enjoy his

nonsense, in the exhilaration of the mountain air blow freshly from

the snowy summit which seem to rise like wall before they. the

steaming, misty, relax atmosphere of Lima be leave behind, and with

it many a care and vexation.  Mr. Ponsonby bring his mule to the side

of his wife's litter, and exchange many a joke in Anglo-spanish with

she and the lieutenant; and Mr. Ward, his brow unfurrowe from

counting-house care, walk beside Mary's mule, gather each new

flower for she, and listen to her narrative of some of the cause for

which she be glad, with her own eye, to see Tom Madison in his scene

of action.



the first day of adventure they sleep at a hacienda, surround with

field where numerous llama be pasture.  the next begin the real

mountain work; the rock look like a wall before they, and the white

summit be sharply define against the blue sky.  the sharp air

make Rosita shiver; but the english traveller congratulate themselves

on something like a breeze, console they for the glow with which the

sunbeam beat upon the rock.  the palm and huge fern have give place

to pine, and these be grow more scanty. once or twice they meet a

brown Indian, robe in a coloured blanket, with a huge straw hat, from

beneath which he gaze with curious, though gentle eye, upon the

cavalcade.  by-and-by, look like a string of ant descend a

perpendicular wall, Mary behold a row of black speck slowly move.

she be tell that these be the mule bring down the metal in

pannier--the only mean of communication, until, as the lieutenant

promise, a perpendicular railroad should be invent.  the electricity

of the atmosphere make joke easily pass current.  the mountain be

'only' one of the spur of the Andes, a mere infant among the giant;

but, have it be set down in Europe, Mont Blanc must have hide his

diminish head; and the view be well than on some of the more

enormous neighbour, which be both far inland, and of such

height, that to gaze from they be 'like look from an air-balloon

into vacancy.'  whereas here Mary have but to turn her head, as her mule

steadily creep round the causeway--a legacy of the Incas--to behold the

expanse of the Pacific, a sheet of glitter light in the sunshine,

the horizon line raise so high, that the first moment it give she a

sense of there be something wrong with her eye, before the feeling

of infinity rush upon she.



they be turn the flank of the mountain, and lose the sunshine.

the evening air be almost chill, and the clearness such that they

already see the ragged height whither they be bind rise in craggy

shatter grandeur, every flat space or gentle declivity cover with

shed and hut for the work-people, and cavernous mouth opening on the

cliff-side.  dark figure could be distinctly see move about; and as

to the descend mule, they seem to be close on the other side of a

narrow ravine.  Rosita, who, now it come to the point, be not without

fear of sleep on the bare mountain-side, want to push on; she be

sure they could arrive before night, but she be tell that she know

nothing of mountain atmosphere; and she be not discontent with the

bright fire and comfortable arrangement on which they suddenly come,

after turn round a great shoulder of rock.  Mr. Robson and the

sumpt-mule have quietly precede they, and the gipsying on the Andes

be likely to be not much less luxurious than an english pic-nic.  the

negro cook have do his good; Mary make her father's coffee, and Rosita

be wait on to her satisfaction.  and when darkness come on, too

early for english association with warm day, the light of the

village at the mine glitter merrily, and, apparently, close at hand;

and the star above shone as Mary have never see they, so marvellously

large and bright, and the Magellan cloud so white and mysterious.  Mr.

Ward come and tell she some of the observation make on they by

distinguish traveller; and after an earnest conversation, she seek

her matted bed, with a pleasant feeling on her mind, as if she have be

unusually near Louis's world.



clear, sharp, and cold be the air next day; the snow-field glisten

gloriously in the rise sun, and a rose-coloured mist seem to rise

from they.  Rosita be show the unusual spectacle of hoar frost, and

shiveringly profit by Mary's ample provision of wrap.  the

hill-side be beyond conception desolate and bare. bird be an

almost unknown race in Peru; and here even green thing have depart,

scarcely a tuft of blossom look out on the face of the red and

purple rock; and the exceed stillness so awful, that even the

boy-sailor scarce dare to speak above his breath.  Rosita begin to

repent of having come near so horrible a place; and when she put she

head out of her litter, and behold herself wind along a ledge

project from the face of a sheer precipice, she would have beg to

go back instantly; but her husband speak in a voice of authority which

subdue she; she draw in her head into her basket-work contrivance, and

have recourse to vow to Sta Rosa of Lima of a chaplet of diamond rose,

if she ever come safely down again.



Mary have make up her mind that they should not have be take thither

if there be any real danger; and so, though she could have prefer

her mule take the inner side of the ledge, and be not too happy when

it climb like a cat, she smile, and answer all inquiry that she

do not think she ought to be frightened.  the region be in general

more stern than beautiful, the cleft between the hill look so

deep, that it seem as if an overthrown mountain could hardly fill

they; but now and then come sudden peep of that wonderful ocean; or

almost under her foot, as if she could throw a stone into it, there

would lie an intensely green valley, shut in with feathering pine, and

the hacienda and graze llama dwindle, so that they could have be

take for a swiss farm and flock of sheep.



not till the middle of the day do they meet the line of mule, and not

until the sunset do they find themselves close before the wonderful

perforate San Benito summit.  it be, unlike many other metalliferous

hill, an isolate, sharply-define mass of rock, break into sudden

pinnacle and point, traverse with vein of silver.  these vein have

be work with gallery, which, even before the spanish conquest,

have honeycomb the solid rock, and have be think to have exhaust

its rich; but it have be part of Oliver Dynevor's bold speculation

to bring modern science to profit by the leaving of the Peruvians and

their destroyer.  it be a marvellous work, but it might still be a

question whether the profit would bear out the expense.



however, that be not the present consideration.  no one could feel

anything but admire astonishment at the fantastic craggy height of

peak and spire, rise against the darken sky, like the very

stronghold of the Giant of the Western Star; and, with the black

opening of the gallery, here and there show the light of the

workman within.  Mary remember the tale, in which Louis use vainly

to try to interest she, of metal-work Dwarfs within the mountain;

and would have be glad to tell he that, after all, reality be quite

as strange as his legend.



the miner, Indians and negro, might truly have be Trolls, as, with

their brown and black countenance, and wild bright attire, they came

throng out of their rude house, build of pile stone on every

tolerably level spot.  three or four stout, hearty cornish miner, with

pick on their shoulder, make the contrast strange; and among they

stand a young man, whose ruddy open face carry Mary home to

Ormersfield in one moment; and she could not but blush almost as if it

have be Louis, when she bent her head in acknowledgment of his bow.



he start towards she as if to help she off her mule; but Mr. Ponsonby

be detain he by question, and Mr. Ward, as usual, be at her

rein.  in a wonderfully brief time, as it seem to she, all the

animal be lead off to their quarter; and Robson, come up,

explain that Madison's hut, the only habitable place, have be

prepare for the lady--the gentleman must be content to sleep in

their tent.



'the hut be at least clean,' say Robson, as he usher they in; and

Mary feel as if it be a great deal more.  it be rudely build, and

only the part near the hearth be line with matting; the table and the

few stool and chair be rough carpentry, chiefly make out of box;

but upon the wall hang a beautiful print from Raffaelle, of which she

know the giver as surely as if his name have be write on it; and the

small bookcase suspend near contain, compress together, an

epitome of Louis's taste--the choicest of all his favourite, in each

class of book.  Mary stand by it, read the name, and try to

perceive Louis's principle of selection in each case.  it jar upon

she when, as the gentleman loiter about, wait for the evening

meal, they come and look at the title, with careless remark that

the superintendent be a youth of taste, and a laugh at the odd

medley--Spenser, Shakspeare, 'Don Quixote,' Calderon, Fouque, and

selection from Jeremy Taylor, &c.



Mary would hear no more comment.  she go to the fire, and try to

persuade Rosita they would come safe down again; and then, on the

apology for a mantelshelf, she see some fossil and some dry grass,

look almost as if Fitzjocelyn have put they there.



she do not see Madison that night; but the next morning he present

himself to act as their guide through the wonder of the extraordinary

region where his lot have be cast.  she find that this be only the

first floor of the wondrous castle.  above and above, rose gallery,

whence the ore be lower down to the building here place, where it

undergo the first process of separation.  the path above be fit

for none, save a chamois, or a barefooted indian, or a sailor--for the

midshipman be climb aloft in such place, that Tom's chief work be

to summon he back, in horror lest he should involve himself in endless

gallery, excavate before the day of Atahualpa.



much of the desperate scrambling which Madison recommend as

plain-sailing, be beyond Mr. Ponsonby; but where he go, Mary go;

and when he stop, she, though she have not draw since the master at

her school have resign she, as a hopeless case, apply herself to the

perpetration of an outline of the rock, that, as she say, 'her aunt

might see what sort of place it be.'  her steady head, and firm,

enterprize hand and foot, enable she to see the crowning wonder of

the mountain, one of the ventanilla or window.  Mr. Ward, having

visit it, come back bent on take she thither; there be no danger,

if she be not afraid.  so, between he and Tom Madison, she be

drag up a steep path, and conduct into a gallery cut out in the

living rock, grow gloomier and gloomy, till suddenly there be a

spot of light on the sparkling floor, and Mary find herself beneath an

opening through the mountain crown, right up into the sky, which,

through the wild opening, look of the deep, most ultra-marine,

almost purple blue, utterly beyond conception in the glory of intense

colour, bring only to her mind those most expressive, yet most

inexpressive word, 'the body of heaven in his clearness.'  she feel,

what she have often heard say, that to all mountain top be give

somewhat of the glory that dwelt on Sinai.  that ineffable blue be

more dazzling than even the field beyond field of marvellous white

that meet her eye on emerge from the dark gallery.



'I never wish so much that Lord Fitzjocelyn should see anything as

that,' say Tom Madison, when Mary, in her gratitude, be try to say

something adequate to the trouble she have give, though the beauty be

beyond any word of admiration.



'he would--' she begin to answer, but the rest die away, only answer

by Tom with an emphatic 'he _would_!' and then begin the difficulty

of get down.



but Mary have the pleasure at the next pause of hear Mr. Ward say,

'that be a very fine intelligent young fellow, worthy of his library. I

think your father have a prize in he!'



Mary's eye thank Mr. Ward, with all her heart in they.  it be worth

go up the Andes for such a sentence to put into a letter that Aunt

Kitty would show to Louis.



Robson seem anxious to monopolize the attention of the gentleman, to

the exclusion of Madison; and while Tom be thus thrust aside, Mary

succeed in have a conversation with he, such as she feel be a

sort of duty to Louis.  she ask he the name of the various

mountain-peak in sight, whose bare crag, too steep to support the

snow, here and there stand out dark in salient contrast to the white

scenery, and as he give they to she, mention the few fact that he

have be able to gather respect they, she be able to ask he

whether he be in the habit of see anything approach to society.

he smile, say that his near neighbour be many mile off--an

engineer conduct some far more extensive mining operation, whom he

sometimes meet on business, and an old spanish gentleman, who live in a

valley far down the mountain side, with whom he sometimes smoke his

cigar on a Sunday, if he feel inclined for a perpendicular promenade on

a peruvian causeway for nearly four mile.  Mary ask whether he often

do feel inclined.  no, he think not often; he have generally work

hard enough in the week to make his book the good company; but he like

now and then to see something green for a change after these bare

mountain and rock, and the old Don Manrique be very civil and

agreeable.  then, after a few minute' conversation of this kind,

something of the old conscious abruptness of tone seem to come over

the young man, and look down, he say bluntly, 'Miss Ponsonby, do

you think there would be any objection to my come into Lima just for

Christmas?'



'I suppose not; I cannot tell.'



Tom explain that all the miner would be make holiday, and the

senior Cornishman might safely be leave in charge of the work, while he

only wish to spend Christmas-day itself in the city, and would be a

very short time absent.  he blush a little as he speak, and Mary

venture to reply to what she gather of his thought, 'no other day

would suit you as well?'



'no, ma'am, it hardly would,' he answer, gravely.



'I will try what can be do,' say Mary, 'unless you would speak to

Mr. Ponsonby yourself.'



he look inquiringly at Mr. Ponsonby's figure some pace distant, and

shake his head.



'I will try,' repeat Mary; and then she add, 'these grand hill-top

and blue sky almost make a church--'



'yes, ma'am,' say Tom, his black eye light at the thought; 'I've

feel so sometimes, but 'tis a mighty lonely one after a time.  I've

take my book, and get out of earshot of the noise the black make; and

I do assure you, Miss Ponsonby, the stillness be enough to drive one

wild, with nothing but savage rock to look at either!  not a green

plant, nor a voice to answer, unless one get to the mountain echo,

and they be worse--'



'but surely you have the Cornishmen!  what do they do on a Sunday?'



'they lie about, and smoke and sleep, or go down to the valley,' say

Tom.  'I never think of they.'



'I think you should,' say Mary, gravely.  'if you be in any authority

over they, it must give you a charge over their soul. I think you

should, at least, give they the choice of read the service with you.'



'I'll think about it,' say Madison, gruffly.



'I will send up some book for they to make an opening,' say Mary. 'I

should not like to think of man live in such scene, without be

the well for they.'



Robson be here oblige to call Madison to refer some question to he;

but Mary have another talk with he, when he beg to know if there

be likely soon to be an opportunity of send to England. he have

some fossil which he wish to send to Lord Fitzjocelyn; and he

fetch they, and explain his theory with regard to they as if he

have almost forget that she be not his young Lord.  she carry his

request to her father, and be answer that of course he might take a

holiday if he could leave the work with safety; he have well spend a

few day in the town when he do come.  with this answer she make he

happy; and they set off, to the extreme joy of Rosita, who have

engross much less attention than she have expect, and declare she

would never have come into these horrible place if she could have

imagine what they be like.  certainly, no one wish to have she

company there again.



when Mr. Ponsonby mention the permission which he have accord to

Madison, Robson cough and look annoyed.  Mary could not help

suspect that this be because the request have not be prefer

through himself.  'so the young fellow want to be come down, do

he?  I think his ardour be too hot to last long.'



'very natural that the poor lad should want a holiday,' say Mr.

Ponsonby.  'it must take a tolerable flow of spirit to stand long,

be so many foot above the level of the sea, in cave fit for a

robber's den at the theatre.'



'oh, I be make no objection, sir,' return Robson; 'the young man

may take his pleasure for what I care, so he can be trust not to

neglect his business.'



here the path narrow, and Mary have to fall back out of hearing; but

she have an unpleasant suspicion that Robson be tell her father

something to Tom's disadvantage, and she have to consider how to avoid

rouse a jealousy, which she know might be dangerous.



Mr. Ward, however, come up to interrupt her thought and watch the

step of her mule.  the bad difficulty of the descent have preclude

all conversation; and the party be just begin to breathe freely,

think of terra firma as not far off, and gaze with easy mind on the

marvellous ocean.  Mary go on in very comfortable discussion of the

wonder they have see, and of Madison's remark that the performance of

the Incas make one quite ashamed of the achievement of modern

science--a saying in which Mr. Ward perfectly agree; and then he begin

to say something rather long, and a little disconnected, and Mary's

mind take an excursion to Aunt Kitty, and the reading of the letter

that she be go to write, when suddenly something in Mr. Ward's

voice startle she, and recall her attention, she discover, to she

dismay, that he be actually make she an offer!  an offer!  she would

as soon have expect one from her father!  and oh! how well

express--how entirely what it ought to be!  how unlike every one of

those three of her past experience!



in great distress she exclaim, 'oh, Mr. Ward, pray do not--indeed, I

cannot!'



'I fear that I be but too likely to meet with such an answer,' say

Mr. Ward; 'and yet your father encourage I to hope, that in course of

time--'



'then papa have tell you what he think?' say Mary.



'I apply to he before I could venture to join this party.  Mary, I

be aware that I can bring none of the advantage which have'--his voice

faltered--'which have forestall I; but the most true and earnest

affection be already your.'



'I be very sorry for it, Mr. Ward,' say Mary, gravely, though much

touch.  'it be very kind of you, but it be only fair and candid to

tell you that papa have probably lead you into a mistake.  he think that

the--the object be weak and unworthy, and that my feeling could be

easily overcome.  he do not know--'



'he assure I that all be at an end--'



'it be,' say Mary; 'but I be certain that I shall never feel for any

one else the same as'--and the tear be come last.  'you be very

kind, Mr. Ward, but it be of no use to think that this can ever be.'



'forgive I for having harass you,' say Mr. Ward, and they go on

so long in silence that Mary hope it be over, and yet he do not go

away from she.  she be sorry to see the grieve, deject expression

on his good, sensible, though somewhat worn countenance; and she

esteem he highly; but who could have think of so unlucky a fancy

come into his head?  when, at length, he speak again, it be to say

that he beg that she would forget what be past, and allow he to

continue on his former footing.  Mary be glad to have something

grateful to say, and answer that she should have be very sorry to

lose he as a friend; whereupon his face cheer up, he thank she,

and fall back from her rein.  in spite of her past trial of the

futility of the attempt to live with a reject suitor as if nothing

have happen, she have hope of the possibility when her own heart be

untouched, and the gentleman nearly double her year; but when she

talk to her father, she gather that it be consider by both

gentleman that the proposal have be premature, and that her final

detachment from Louis be reckon on as so certain that Mr. Ward be

willing to wait, as if it be only a matter of time.  he be so

wealthy and prosperous, and a connexion with he would have be so

useful to the firm, that Mary be grateful to her father for forbear

to press she on what he evidently wish so earnestly. Mr. Ward have

exactly the excellent, well-balance character, which seem make to

suit she, and she could have imagine be very happy with he,

if--no, no--Mr. Ward could not be think of at the same moment.



yet, whatever she might say, no one would believe she; so she hold she

peace, and write her history of the silver mine; and Mr. Ward haunt

the house, and be most kindly forbearing and patient, and Mary find

at every turn, how good a man he be, and how cruel and mistaken his

sister think she.



and Christmas come, when the church be perfect orange-grove, and

the scene of the wanderer of Bethlehem be act from house to house

in the twilight.  the scanty english congregation meet in the room that

serve as a chapel in the Consul's house--poor Mary alone of all her

household there to keep the feast; and Mr. Ward be there, and Madison

have come down from his mountain.  there be heart at home that would

rejoice to hear that.



Mary see he afterwards, and he thank she for her suggestion

respect the miner.  two have be only as shy as Tom himself; they

have be read alone, and be glad to join company, a third be

begin to come, and it have lead to a more friendly intercourse. Mary

send he away, very happy with some book for they, some new spanish

reading for himself, an astronomical book, and her little celestial

globe--for the whole firmament of star have be by no mean lose on

he.  that interview be her Christmas treat.  well for she that she

do not hear Robson say, 'that young man know how to come over the

lady.  I shall keep a sharp look-out after he. I know no harm of

he, but if there's one man I trust less than another, it be one that

try the serious dodge.'









CHAPTER X.



the wrong woman in the WRONG PLACE.



  give I again my hollow tree,

  my crust of bread, and liberty.

     the Town Mouse and the Country Mouse--POPE.





the new cook's first compliment to Charlotte be, 'upon my word, you

be a genteel young woman, I dare say you have a lot of sweetheart.'



the indignant denial of the Lady of Eschalott be construe into she

be 'sly,' and Mrs. Cook promise herself to find she out.



those be not happy day with the little maiden.  the nurse look

down on she, and the cook fill the kitchen with idler, whose look

and speech be abhorrent to she.  sometimes the woman take offence

at she for be high; at other, she force on her advice upon her

dress, or try to draw out confidence either on lover or the affair

of the family.  Charlotte be sadly forlorn, and shut herself up in her

pantry, or in her own little attic with Jane's verbena which cook have

banish from the kitchen, and lose her sorrow in book hire at the

library.  she read, and dream, create leisure for reading, live in a

trance, and awake from it to see her work neglect, reproach herself,

and strain her power to make up for what be leave undo.  then,

find her effort fail, she would be distressed and melancholy,

until a fresh novel engross she for a time, and the whole scene be

enact over again.



still, it be not all idleness nor lost ground.  the sense of

responsibility be do she good, she withstand the cook's folly,

and magnanimously return unopened a shine envelope of Mr.

Delaford's.  at Christmas, when Mr. and Mrs. Frost go to pay a visit

at Beauchastel, and the cook enjoy a course of gaiety, the only use

she make of her liberty be to drink tea once with Mrs. Martha, and to

walk over to Marksedge to see old Madison, who be fast breaking, and

who dictate to she his last message to his grandson.



James and Isabel spend a pleasant lively Christmas with their

hospitable old friend, and James return full of fresh vigour and new

project.  his first be to offer his assistance to the Vicar, so as to

have a third service on the Sunday; but there be difference of

opinion between they, and his proposal be receive so ungraciously,

that a coolness arise, which cut he off from many opening for

usefulness.



however, he have enough to occupy he in his own department, the school.

he be astonish at his boy' deficiency in religious instruction, and

start a plan for collect they for some teaching for an hour before

morning service.  Mr. Calcott agree with he that nothing could be

more desirable, but doubt whether the parent would compel their son

to attend, and advise James to count the cost, doubt whether, in

the long run, he would be able to dispense with one day of entire rest.

this be the more to be consider, since James expend a wonderful

amount of energy in his teaching, do his utmost to force the boy on,

in class and in private, drill his usher, join in the game, and

give evening lecture on subject of general information.



some respond to his training, and these he strenuously encourage,

ask they to dinner and take they to walk; and these be

enthusiastically fond of he, and regard his beautiful wife as a

being of a superior order.  Fitzjocelyn and James use to agree that

intercourse with she be a very important element in their training,

and the invitation be make as impartial as possible, include the

intelligent and well-conduct, irrespective of station.  Isabel's

favourite guest be a good, well-mannered lad, son to Mr. Ramsbotham's

follower, the butcher, but, unluckily, Mrs. Richardson and her friend

do not esteem it a compliment when their son be ask to meet he,

and, on the other hand, James do not always distinguish real merit

from mere responsiveness to his own mind. dull boy, or such as have a

half sullen, half conservative dislike to change, do not gain notice

of an agreeable kind, and while intend to show strict justice, he

do not know how far he be affect by his prepossession.



his lecture have emancipate he from evening party; and, after Mrs.

Frost's departure, visit give Isabel little trouble.  the calm,

lofty manner that have be admire in Miss Conway, be think pride

in Mrs. James Frost, and none of the lady of Northwold even wish to

do more than exchange morning call with she, and talk among themselves

of her fine-ladyism.  she recke nothing of their keeping aloof; her

book and her pen be far pleasanter companion on her alternate

evening of solitude, and in they she try to lose her wish for the

merry day spend with granny and Clara, and her occasional perception

that all be not as in their time.  James would sometimes bring this

fact more palpably before she.



the separation of the family have not diminish the income of the

household, but the difference in comfort be great.  Isabel know

nothing of management, and do not care to learn.  she have be willing

to live on a small scale, but she do not understand personal

superintendence, she be careless of display, and perfectly happy as

long as she be the guest of the grandmother, but she have no

comprehension of petty tidiness or small economy.  now James,

bring up on a very different scale, know in detail how the household

ought to live, and make it a duty not to exceed a fix sum.  he have

the eye for neatness that she want; he could not believe it a

hardship to go without indulgence to which his grandmother and sister

have not be accustom.  thus, he protest against unnecessary fire;

Isabel shiver and wear shawl; he be hurt at seem to misuse she,

resign his study fire, and still find the coal ever require to be

renew, insist that his wife should speak to the cook, and mystify

she by talk about the regulation of the draught of the kitchen fire;

and when Isabel understand, she forget the lecture.



he be a devoted and admire husband, but he could not coolly discover

innumerable petty neglect and wasteful habit.  impatient word break

out, and Isabel always receive they so meekly that he repent and

apologize; and in the reconciliation the subject be forget, but

only to be revive another time.  Isabel be always ready to give warm

aid and sympathy in all his high care and purpose, and her mild

tranquillity be repose and soothe to he, but she be like one in a

dream.  she have marry a vision of perfection, and enter on a

romance of happy poverty, and she have no desire to awaken; so she never

exert her mind upon the world around she, when it seem oppressive;

and keep the visionary James Frost before she, in company with Adeline

and the transform Sir Hubert. it be much easy to line his tent

with a tapestry of maltese crosse, than to consider whether the hall

should be cover with cocoanut matting.



how Christmas pass with Clara, may be see in the follow letter:--





'Cheveleigh, Jan. 1851.



'dearest Jem,--I can write a long letter to-night, for a fortunate cold

have spare I from one of Sir Andrew's dinner-party.  it be a

reminiscence of the last ball, partly bring on by compunction at

having drag poor granny thither, in consideration of my unguarded

declaration of intense dislike to be chaperone by Lady Britton. Granny

look glorious in black velvet and diamond, and I do trust that her

universal goodwill render the ball more tolerable to she than it be

to I.  she, at least, be all she seem; whereas I be so infest with

civility, that I long to proclaim myself little Clara Frost, breed up

for a governess, and the laugh-stock of her school. oh! for that

first ball where no one dance with I but Mr. Richardson, and I be

not a mere peg for the display of Uncle Oliver's peruvian jewel!  I

have all the trouble in the world to be allow to go about fit to be

see, and only by mean of great fighting and coax do I prevail to

have my dress only from London instead of Paris.



'and no wonder I shiver all the way to the ball.  Fancy Jane

insist on my go to display my dress to that poor die Marianne;

I be shock at the notion of carry my frivolity into such a

scene, but Jane say her mind run on it, and it be 'anything to take

off her thought from that man.'  so I go into her room, and oh! if

you could have see the poor thing, with her short breath and rack

cough, her cheek burn and her eye glisten at that flimsy

trumpery.  one bunch of the silver flower on my skirt be wrong; she

spy it, and they would not thwart she, so she would have the needle,

and the skeleton tremble finger set they right.  they say she would

sleep the easy for it, and she thank I as if it have really set she

more at rest; but how sad, how strange it seem, when she know that

she be sink fast, and have have Mr. Danvers with she every day.   he

think all be well with she; but it be a melancholy, blank, untaught

mind, to begin to work on.  Louis would call her life a mournful

picture of our civilization.  she have tell it all to Jane: she be of

the mechanic class, just above the rank that go to Sunday-school;

she go to a genteel weekly school, and be take out pleasuring on

Sunday--no ground-work at all.  an orphan at fifteen, she never again

know tenderness.  then come dressmake till her health fail, and she

try service.  she say, Isabel's soft tone make a paradise for she;

but late hour, which she do not feel at the time, wear she out, and

Delaford trifle with she. always when alone he pretend devotion to

she, then flirt with any other who come in his way, and worry and

fret put the finish to her fail health.  she have no spirit to

break entirely with he, and even now be pine for one kind word,

which he seem to be too hard and selfish to send to she, in answer to

a letter of forgiveness that she write a fortnight back.  what a wretch

he must be!  Jane say, he try flirt with poor little Charlotte,

and that she be a little 'take up' with his guitar and his verse; but

then, Jane say, 'Charlotte have somewhat at the bottom, and know

well than to heed a man as ben't real religious.'  I suppose that be

the true difference between Charlotte and Marianne, and even if we

look into Delaford's history, most likely we should find he another

nineteenth-century victim to an artificial life.  at least, I trust

that Jane have be the great blessing, Marianne herself speak of

she as more than a mother to she; and I believe I tell you of the poor

girl's overpowering gratitude, when she find we would not turn she out

to die homeless.  we read, and we talk, and Mr. Danvers come; but I

believe dear old Jane do more for she than all.



'Poor Jane! when her task of nursing be over, I do not know what she

will turn to.  the grand servant only keep term with she because

Uncle Oliver give notice that no one should stay in the house who do

not show respect to his _friend_ Mrs. Beckett.  it take all her love

for Missus and Master Oliver to make she bear it; and her chief solace

be in put I to bed, and in air Master Oliver's shirt and

slipper.  you would laugh to hear she compassionate the home

mince-pie! and she tell I she would give fifty pound rather than

bring Charlotte here.  my uncle wish grandmamma to manage the house,

and she do so at first, but she and the servant do not get on well

together; and she say, what I never know she say before, that she be

too old, and so we have an awful dame who rule with a high hand.



'you ask whether the dear granny be happy.  you know she be all

elasticity, and thing be pleasanter here to she than to I, but I do

not think she enjoy life as she do at home.  it be hard to have her

whole mission reduce to air those four horse.  we have torment

my uncle out of make we use more than two at a time, by beg for

six and the Lord Mayor's coach; but air alternately they must be, and

we must do it, and by no road but what the coachman choose; and this

do not seem to I to agree with she like trot about the town on

her errand.  there be no walking here, except in the

pleasure-ground, where all my grandfather's landscape-gardening have

be cut up so as to be a mere vexation to she.  the people round be

say to be savage and disaffect, and the quarter of a mile between

the park and the village be subject to miner go home.  they do

once holloa at I, and order be issue that I should walk no more.

I believe that if they see I fearless, and come among they for

friendly purpose, they would leave off hoot; but the notion

frighten granny, so I be a prisoner.  they be the people to think it

a mockery to be visit by a lady bedizen as I be, and stick up in a

carriage; so we can do very little except through Mr. Danvers, and my

uncle be always discontent at the sight of he, and fancy he be

always beg. a little sauciness on my part have the good effect when

anything be want, for my uncle be very kind to I in his own fashion,

which be not mine.



'we have make something of a nest in the last of the suite of room,

the only one habitably small; but it be wonderful where all the time in

the day go.  my uncle like I to ride with he in the morning, and I

have to help granny air the horse in the afternoon; and in the

evening, when we be lucky enough to dine alone, I play they both

asleep, unless they go to backgammon.  think of granny reduce to that!

we should be very happy when he be detain in his study, but that

granny think it be bad for he.  dear granny!



I see the object of her life be to win he back to serious thought.

she seem to think of he like a schoolboy who must be lure to find

home pleasanter than idle way; and she beg I quite sadly to bear

with he, and make he happy, to prevent he from longing after his

counting-house at Lima.  she try to make he promise never to go

back, but he have only promise never to go while she live, and she

seem to think it would be fatal, and to charge all his disregard of

religious matter upon herself for having send he out.  if you could

see her pleased smile when we extort a subscription, or when she get

he to church; but when those south american mail come in on

Sundays--alas!  those account be his real element, and his moment of

bliss be over the 'money-market and City intelligence,' or in

discuss railway share with Sir Andrew.  all the rest be an

obstinate and dismal allegiance to the day of Shrievalty, about as

easy to recall as the day when the Pendragons wear golden collar and

armlet.  imitate hospitality turn into ostentation; and the people

who seek after silver cover and french cookery be no more to my taste

than they be, in good earnest, to Uncle Oliver's.  the nice people, if

there be any, willn't come in our way, except Mr. Henderson; and when we

do pluck up courage to disgust Mr. Coachman by call on Mrs.

Henderson, we be very happy.  but she be a wise woman, and will not

bring she pretty fanny into our world; and when I press she, behold! I

remember what I use to think of patronage.



'but Louis have promise to come at Easter, and he will teach I a

little more charity, I hope; and, what be well (no, I don't mean

that), will tell I about the dear, dear, trebly dear Terrace and all

the doing.  I hope you will begin your Sunday scheme; but granny fear

the bad set will not care, and the good will prefer have their

family together.  it be bad than I expect even of Mr. Purvis to

refuse the afternoon service, when you offer to take all the trouble

off his hand; granny hope you will take care what you be about with

he.  tell Louis we have a famous letter from Mary to show he if he

will bring we all news of every one, and especially of his godchild.

contrary to custom, you tell we more about she than her mamma do.



                    'your most affectionate Sister,

                                       'CLARA.'





before Easter, Charlotte's poor rival be lie at rest in Cheveleigh

churchyard, and Jane's task of love be at an end.









CHAPTER XI.



AUNT CATHARINE'S HOME.



  the lady sleep--o may her sleep,

  as it be last, so be deep!

  Heaven have she in its sacred keep!

  this bed be change for one more holy,

  this room for one more melancholy,

  some tomb, that oft hath fling its black

  and wing-like panel flutter back,

  triumphant o'er the flutter pall

  of her grand family funeral.

                        E. A. POE.





the summer be nearly over, when, one morning at breakfast, Louis

surprise his father by a sound, half consternation, half amusement,

and hand he a note, contain these words:--





'DEAR F.,--There be three of we last night; there be five this

morning.  Isabel and the twin be do well.  Heaven know what be to

become of we!



        'your,

          J. F.'





'what would you have?' say Lord Ormersfield, calmly.  'the poor

people be, the more child they have!'



he go on with his own letter, while Louis laugh at the enunciation

of this inverse ratio; and then take up the note again, to wonder at

the tone of anxiety and distress, so unlike James.  he go to call on

Lady Conway, and be well satisfied to find that James have write in

a lively strain to she, as if proud of his little daughter, and

resolve not to be pity.  of this he be in no danger from his

sister-in-law, who look upon twin-girl as the only blessing need

to complete Isabel's felicity, have devise three dozen name for they,

and long to be invite to Northwold to see they.



nothing be hear of James for more than a week, and, as London grow

hotter, dustier, and dreary than ever, Fitzjocelyn long, more than

he think wholesome to confess, after Ormersfield turf, the deep

ravine, and rush brook.  the sun shine almost through the blind of

the open window on the large library table, where sit Louis at his own

end, write to his Inglewood bailiff, and now and then solace

himself by lift with the feather of his pen one of the bell of a

delicate lily in a glass before he--a new spectacle on the Earl's

writing-table; and so be a strip of vellum, with illumination rich

and rare--Louis's indulgence when he feel he have earn an hour's

leisure.  there be a ring at the door, a step on the stair, and

before the father and son stand James, his little black bag in his

hand, like himself, all dust, and his face wear, heated, and tired.



'then you have not hear from Cheveleigh?' he say, in answer to their

astonished greeting, produce a note, which be eagerly read:--





'Dearest Jem,--My uncle say I may write to you, in case you can leave

Isabel, that he will be glad to see you.  I tell you that dear

grandmamma have a cold, and so we would not let she come to Isabel; but

I little guess what be come.  it only seem a feverish cold, and

Jane and I almost laugh at my uncle for choose to send for a

doctor.  he be not alarmed at first, but yesterday she be inert and

sleepy, and he ask for more advice.  Dr. Hastings come to-day, and

oh! Jem, he call it a breaking up of the constitution, and do not

think she will rally.  she know we, but she be almost always drowsy,

and very hard to rouse.  if you can come without hurt Isabel, I know

you will.  we want you all the more, because my uncle will not let I

send for Mr. Danvers.  Poor Uncle Oliver be dreadfully troubled.



                           'your most affectionate CLARA.'





'Transplantation have kill she--I know it would!' say James, as Louis

stand, with the note in his hand, as if not yet understand the blow.



'Nay,' say the Earl, 'it be an age at which we could hardly hope she

would long be spare.  you could leave Mrs. James Frost with comfort?'



'yes, Miss Mercy undertake she--she be do well--she would not hear

of my staying.  I must go on, the train start at two,' he add,

hastily, look at the time-piece.



'we will send you,' say Lord Ormersfield.  'take time to rest.  you

look very ill!  you should have some luncheon.'



'no, thank you!' say James, at first with the instinct of resistance;

but yield and confessing, 'Charlotte go into hysteric, and I have

nothing to eat before I come away.'



Louis come forward from the window where he have be stand as in a

dream, he lay his hand on James's shoulder, and say, 'I will go!' his

voice be hardly audible, but, clear it, and strive to recall his

thought, he add, 'Father, I can be spare.  the division be not

come on to-night, or you could get I a pair.'



the Earl look doubtfully at James.



'yes, let I go,' say Louis.  'I must see she again.  it have be

mother and son between we.'  and, hide his face in his hand, he

hurry out of the room.



'let he come,' say James.  'if duty and affection claim a right, none

have such as he.'



'I hesitate only as to act unceremoniously by your uncle.'



'this be no moment for ceremony--no time to deprive she of whatever she

love good.'



'be it so, then.  his own feeling be his good passport, and well have

she deserve all that he can ever feel!  and, James, if she should

express any desire to see I, if I can be of any use in settle

matter, or could promote any well understanding with your uncle, I

be ready at a moment's notice.  I would come at once, but that many

might be burdensome to your uncle and sister.'



the two cousin be quickly on their way.  James take a second-class

ticket, the first time he have ever do so in travel with his

cousin.  Fitzjocelyn place himself beside he without remark.



James doze as well as the narrow seat would permit, and only wake to

chafe at each halt, and Louis muse over the association of those

scene, and last year's triumphant return.  have the change of habit

truly hasten the decay of her power? have her son's toil and success

be merely to bring she home to the grave of her father, at the

expense of so many heartburning, separation, and dissension? at

least, he trust that her last hour might be crown by the

peacemaker's joy, and that she might see strife and bitterness lay

aside between Oliver, and Henry's only survive son.



Alas! it be not to be.  the shutter and blind be closed, and Clara

meet they at the door, her pale face and stream eye forestall the

tiding.  the frame, hitherto so vigorous and active, have be spare

long or weary decay; and tranquil torpor have mildly conduct the

happy, gentle spirit to full repose.  she have slumber away without

revival or suffering, as one who do 'rest from her labour,' and her

eye have be close on the previous night.



Clara weep as she speak, but she have be alone with her sorrow long

enough to face it, and endure calmly.



not so her brother.  it be anguish to have come too late, and to have

miss the last word and look; and he stride madly up and down the

room, almost rave at the separation and removal which he declare have

kill she.



'oh, speak to he, Louis!' cry Clara.  'oh, what shall I do?'



as she speak, the door be open, and Mr. Dynevor come in, with a

grief-stricken look and quieter manner, but his entrance instantly

silence all James's demonstration, and change they into a haughty,

compress bitterness, as though he actually look on he in the light

of his grandmother's destroyer.



'ah! James,' begin his uncle, gently, 'I wish you have be here

early!'



'I leave home by the first train after hear.  I ought to have hear

soon.'



'I could not suppose you would choose to come here without serious

reason,' say Oliver, with more dignity than usual.  'however, I would

willingly forget, and you will remain here for the present.'



'I must apologize for having thrust myself on you, sir,' say Louis,

'but, indeed, I could not stay away.  after what she have be to I,

ever since I can remember her--' and tear cut he short.



'Sir, it do you honour!' return Oliver.  'she be attach to you.

I hope you will not leave we as yet.'



Louis feel as if he could not leave the house where what be mortal of

his dear old aunt yet remain, and he likewise have a perception that

he might be a support and assistance to Clara in keep the peace

between her brother and uncle; so he gratefully accept the invitation.



Mr. Dynevor presently explain that he intend the funeral to take

place at the end of the week.



'I can not be so long from home,' say James, in a quick, low voice.



Clara run up to her uncle, lay her hand on his arm, and draw he into

a window, whence he presently turn, say, 'your sister tell I

that you cannot be so long absent in the present state of your family.

if possible, the day shall be hasten.'



James be oblige to say, 'thank you!' but any concession seem to

affect he like an injury.



grievous work be it to remain at Cheveleigh, under the constant dread

of some unbecoming outbreak between uncle and nephew. fortunately,

Oliver have too much on his hand to have much time to spend with the

other; but when they be together, there be scarcely a safe subject,

not even the intend name of the twin. James make hasty answer that

they have already receive their name, Mercy and Salome.  Louis and

Clara both cry out incredulously.



'yes,' say James.  'we don't like family name.'



'but such as those!'



'I wish nothing well for they than to be such another pair of

faithful sister.  may they only do as well, poor child!'



the end be soft than the beginning, and there be a tight short

sigh, that seem to burst upward from a whole world of suppress

anxiety and despondence.



it be not easy to understand he, he would not talk of home, be brief

about his little Catharine; and when Clara say something of Isabel's

writing, formerly his great pride, and fear that she would have no

more time for they, his blunt answer be, 'she ought not.'



these comparatively indifferent topic be the only resource; for he

treat allusion to his grandmother as if they be rend open a

wound, and it be only in his absence that Louis and Clara could hold

the conversation respect she, which be their chief comfort and

relief.  if they be certain that Oliver be busy, and James writing

letter, they would walk up and down the sheltered alley, where Louis

have last year comfort Clara.  the green twilight and chequer shade

well accord with the state of their mind, darken, indeed, by one

of the severe loss that could ever befall either of they, and yet

it be a sorrow full of thankfulness and blessed hope.



Louis speak of his regret that scene of uncongenial gaiety should have

be force upon her last year.



'I believe it make very little difference to she,' say Clara.  'she

do just what Uncle Oliver wish, but only as she use to play with

we, no more; nay, rather less for her own amusement than as she would

play at battledore, or at thread-paper verse.'



'and she be not tease nor harass?'



'I think not.  she be grieve if I be set against Uncle Oliver's

plan, and really hurt if she could not make he think as she do about

right and wrong, but otherwise she be always bright.  she never find

people tiresome; she could find something kind to say to and for the

silly; and when my uncle's display be most provoking, she would

only laugh at 'poor Oliver's' odd notion of do her honour.  I use

to be quite ashamed of the fuss I would make when I think a thing

vulgar; when I see that sort of vanity by the side of her real

indifference, spring from unworldliness.'



'and then her morning be quiet?'



'more quiet than at home.  while we be ride, she use to sit with

her dear old big Bible, and the two or three old book she be so fond

of.  you remember her Sutton and her Bishop Home, and often she would

show I some passage that have strike she as pretty than ever, well as

she have always know it.  once she say she be very thankful for the

leisure time, free from household care, and even from friendly gossip;

for she say first she have be gay, then she have be busy, and have

never have time to meditate quietly.'



'so she make a cloister of this grand house.  ah! I trust she be

past be hurt by external thing.  that grand old age be like a pure

glad air where worldly fume could not mount up.  my only fear would

have be this unlucky estrangement make her unhappy.'



'I think I may tell you how she feel it,' say Clara; 'I be try to

tell James, but I don't know whether I can.  she say she have come to

perceive that she have confound pride with independence.  she blame

herself, so that I could not bear to hear it, for the grand fine thing

in her life.  she say pride have make her stand alone, and unkindly

spurn much that be kindly mean.  I don't mean that she repent of

the action, but of the motive; she say the glory of be beholden

to no one have run through everything; and have be very hurtful even to

Uncle Oliver.  she never let he know all her strait, and be too

proud, she say, to ask, when she be hurt at his not offer help,

and so she make he seem more hard-hearted, and let we become set

against he.  she say she have foster the same temper in poor Jem,

who have it strongly enough by inheritance, and that she have never know

the evil, nor understand it as pride, till she see the effect.'



'do they make she unhappy?'



'she cry when she speak of it, and I have see she in tear at

church, and find her eye red when she have be alone, but I don't

think it be a hard, cruel sorrow; I think the sunshine of her nature

manage to beam through it.'



'the sunshine be surely love,' say Louis, 'make the rainbow of hope

on the tear of repentance.  perhaps it be a blessing vouchsafe to the

true of heart to become aware of such a hidden constitutional infirmity

in time to wash it out with bless tear like those.'



'hide,' say Clara, 'yes, indeed it be, even from herself, because

it never show in manner, like my pride; she be gracious and affable

to all the world.  I hear the weed-woman say, 'she have not one

bit of pride,' and when I tell she of it, she shake her head, and

laugh sadly, and say that be the kind of thing which have take she

in.'



'common parlance be a deceitful thing,' say Louis, sighing; 'people

cann't even be sincere without do harm!  well, I have look to see

she make happy by harmony between those two!'



'she give up the hope of see it,' say Clara, 'but she look to it

all the same.  she say meekly one day that it might be her penalty to

see they at variance in her own lifetime, but over her grave perhaps

they would be reconcile, and her prayer be answer. how she do love

Uncle Oliver!  do you know, Louis, what she be to he show I what

the mother's love must be, which we never miss, because--because we

have she!'



'don't talk of it, Clara,' say Louis, hastily; 'we cannot dwell on

ourselves, and bear it patiently!'



it be truly the loss of a most tender mother to they both; bring

for the first time the sense of orphanhood on the girl, leave between

the uncongenial though dote uncle, and the irritable though

affectionate brother; and Louis, though his home be not break up,

suffer scarcely less.  his aunt's playful sweetness have peculiarly

accord with his disposition, and the affection and confidence of his

fond, cling nature have fasten themselves upon she, all the more in

the absence of his own Mary.  each loss seem to make the other more

painful.  Aunt Kitty's correspondence be another link cut away between

he and Peru, and he have never know such a sense of dreariness in his

whole life.  Clara be go patiently and quietly through those try

day, with womanly considerateness; believe herself support by her

brother, and be so in fact by the mere sisterly gratification of his

presence, though she be far more really sustain and assist by

Fitzjocelyn.  how much happy be the sorrow of Louis and Clara than

that of James or Oliver!  temper such as those in which the uncle and

nephew but too closely resemble each other be sour, not soften

by grief, and every arrangement raise discussion which do not tend

to bring they near together.



Oliver design a stately funeral.  nothing be too much for he to

lavish on his mother, and he be profuse in order for hanging,

velvet, blazonry, mute, and hire mourner, greedy of offer of the

dreary state of empty carriage, demand that of Lord Ormersfield,

and want James to write to Lady Conway for the same purpose.



nothing could be more adverse to the feeling of the grandchild; but

Clara have be school into let her uncle have his way, and know

that dear granny would have say Oliver might do as he please with she

in death as in life, own the affection so unpleasantly manifest;

James, on the other hand, could see no affection, nothing but

disgusting parade, as abhorrent to his grandmother's taste as to his

own.  he think he have a right to be consult, for he by no mean

believe himself to have abdicate his headship of the family; and he

make his voice hear entirely without effect, except the indignation of

his uncle, and the absence of the Conway carriage; although Lord

Ormersfield write that he should bring Sir Walter in his own person,

thus leave James divide between satisfaction in any real token of

respect to his grandmother, and dislike to gratify Oliver's

ostentation by the production of his baronet kin.



Sydney Calcott write to he in the name of various former scholar of

Mrs. Frost, anxious to do she the last honour by attend the

funeral.  homage to her day of gallant exertion in poverty be most

welcome and touch to the young people; but their uncle, without

taste to understand it, wish to forget her labour, and fancy

they discreditable to a daughter of the Dynevors, receive the proposal

like an indignity; and but for Fitzjocelyn's mediation and

expostulation, it would have be most unsuitably reject.  he be

oblige to take the answer into his own hand, since Oliver insist

that his mother be to be regard in no light save that of Mrs.

Dynevor, of Cheveleigh; and James be equally resolve that she should

be only Mrs. Frost, of Dynevor Terrace.



it be heart-sicken to see these bickering over the grave of one so

love and so beloved; and very try to be always on the alert to

obviate the snapping that might at any time become a sharp dissension;

but nothing very distressing actually arise until the last day before

the funeral, when the three cousin be sit together in the

morning-room; James write letter.



'I be ask Lady Conway to give you a bed to-morrow night, Clara,' he

say.  'we shall be at home by three o'clock.'



'oh, Jem!' say Clara, clasp her hand to keep they from tremble;

'I never think of that.'



'you be not ready!  that be unlucky, for I cannot come to fetch you;

but I suppose you can travel down with Jane.  only I should have

think it easy to do the thing at once.'



'but, Jem! have my uncle say anything?  do he wish I to go?'



James lay down his pen, and stand upright, as if he do not understand

her word.



Clara come up to he, say, 'I believe I ought to do what he may

wish.'



'I tell you,' say James, as if her word be not worth consider,

'that you need only remain here on her account, who no long need

you.'



Louis would have leave they to themselves, but Clara's glance sue for

his protection, and, as he settle himself in his chair, she speak with

more decision.--'Dear James, nothing would make I so happy as to go to

dear home; but I do not think grandmamma would like I to leave Uncle

Oliver.'



'oh, very well,' say James, sit down to his writing, as if he have

do with she; 'I understand.'



'Dear James!  o tell I you be not angry with I!  tell I you think I

be right!' cry Clara, alarm by his manner.



'quite right in one point of view,' he say, with acrimony.



'James,' say Louis, very low, but so as to make they both start, 'that

be not the way to treat your sister!'



'we will renew the discussion another time, if you wish it, Clara,'

say James.



'no,' say Clara, 'I wish Louis to be here.  he will judge for I,' and

she speak clearly, her face colour.  'it be grandmamma's great wish

that I should love my uncle.  she use to beg I to be patient with

he, and rejoice to see we together.  she often say he must not be

leave with no one to make a home for he, and to go out to Lima again.'



'do she ever desire you to remain here?'



'no,' say Clara, 'she never do; but I be convinced that if she have

know how soon she be to leave we, she would have do so.  I feel as

much bound as if she have.  I have hear she call he my charge. and not

only so, but my uncle have never vary in his kindness to I, and when

he work all his life for grandmamma, and my father, it would be

wicked and cruel in I--if he do care for I--to forsake he, now he

have lose they all, and be grow old.'



'you need not scruple on that score,' say James.  'he have attain his

object, and make the most of it.  he be free now, and he will soon find

a Rosita, if his mine be not sufficient for he.'



'James, you should not say wrong thing,' say Clara.



'I be not likely to think it wrong, whatever you may.  I have no

expectation.  do not rise up in arm against I, Fitzjocelyn, I do not

accuse she.  I might have foresee it.  she mean well at first, but

the Terrace cannot bear competition with a place like this. where two

so-call duty clash, she be at perfect liberty to make her choice.

it would not be easy to come down to what I have to offer.  I

understand.  the world will call it a wise choice.  say no more, Clara,

I feel no anger.'



she attempt no word; she clasp her hand over her face, and run

out of the room.



'James,' say Louis, rise, indignation render his voice more low

and clearly distinct than ever, 'I little think to hear you insult

that orphan sister of yours in her grief.  no! I shall not defend she,

I shall go to give she what comfort I can.  Heaven help she, poor

lonely child!'



he be go.  James pace about in desperation, rave against Louis

for maintain what he think Clara's self-deception; and, in the

blindness of anger, imagine that their ultra-generosity would conduct

they to the repair of Ormersfield with the revenue of Cheveleigh; and,

disdainful as he be, it seem another cruel outrage that his rightful

inheritance should be in the hand of another, and his child

portionless.  he be far too wrathful to have any consistency or

discrimination in his anger, and he be cruelly wound at find that

his sister desert he, as he think, for her uncle's rich, and

that his own close friend be ready to share the spoil.



in the stillness of the house, the sound of a door have reveal to

Louis where to seek his cousin.  it be in the grand saloon, where the

close shutter avail not to exclude the solid beam of slant

sunlight fall through the crevice, and glance on the gilding,

velvet, and blazonry upon the costly coffin, that shut she out from the

dear tender hand and lip that have never fail to caress away her

childish grief.  at first, the strange broad line of shadowy light in

the gloom be all he could see, but one ray tinge with paly light a

plait tress, which could only be Clara's flaxen hair.



she have fling herself, crouch in a heap, on the floor, never

stir, so that he almost fear she have faint; and, kneel on

one knee beside she, speak soothingly: 'my poor little dear Clary, this

be the bad of all, but you know it be not Jem who speak.  it be

only prejudice and temper.  he be not himself.'



the dim light seem to encourage Clara to lift her head to listen to

the kind word.  'be I so very wrong?' she murmur; 'you know I never

think of that!  will he forgive I, and let I come home? but, oh,

granny! and what be to become of my uncle?' she end, with a sound of

misery.



'not here, not now, Clara--' say Louis; 'she be in perfect peace;

unhurt by our unhappy dissension; she be with he who look at heart,

who can take away all variance.'



there be a short space of silence, as the two cousin knelt in the

darken room, in the sunbeam, which seem as if they could not yet

forsake she who have live in the light of love.



presently Louis give Clara his hand to raise she, and lead she into the

adjoining room, also dim, but full of sweet fragrant breeze from the

garden.  he seat she on a low couch, and stand by, anxiously watch

she.



'if he have only tell I I be wrong!' she sigh.



'he could not tell you so, Clara, for it be not wrong, and he know it

be not.  he will thank you by-and-by for not attend to he, now that

he do not know what he say.  he be fairly distracted with this grief

come upon his home care.'



'care at dear, dear happy home!' cry Clara.  'never!'



'ah, Clara!  I fear that much comfort go away with dear granny. I

think he be overtaske himself at the school; and three child

within a year may well make a man anxious and oppress.'



'and I have vex and disappoint he more!' exclaim she.  'no

wonder he be angry, and ready to impute anything!  but he will believe

I, he will forgive I, he will take I home.'



'it be my belief,' say Fitzjocelyn, in his peculiar way, 'that the

bad injury you could do to James would be to give way to the spirit

that have possess he.'



'but, Louis,' cry Clara, wildly astonished, 'I must go; I cann't have

jem say these thing of I.'



'his say they do not make they true.'



'he be my brother.  he have the only right to I.  if I must choose

between he and my uncle, he must be mine--mine.'



'you have not to choose between he and your uncle.  you have to choose

between right and wrong, between his frenzy and his true good.'



'my brother! my brother!  I go with my brother!' be still her vehement

cry.  without listen to her cousin's last word, she make a gesture

to put he aside, and rise to hurry to her brother.



but Louis stand before she, and speak gravely.  'very well.  yield

yourself to his management.  go back to be another burden upon a

household, poor enough already to sour he with care.  let he tell

your uncle that both his brother's child loathe the fruit of the

self-sacrifice of a lifetime.  Transgress your grandmother's wish;

condemn that poor man to a desolate, objectless, covetous old age; make

the breach irreconcilable for ever; and will James be the well or the

happy for your allow his evil temper the full swing?'



Clara wring her hand.  'my uncle!  yes, what shall I do with my uncle?

if I could only have they both?'



'this way you would have neither.  keep the straight path, and you may

end in have both.'



'straight--I don't know what straight be!  it must be right to cling to

my own brother in his noble poverty.  oh! that he should imagine I

care for this horrid, horrid state and grandeur!'



Louis recur to the old argument, that James do not know what he be

say, and recall she to the remembrance of what she have feel to be

the right course before James's ebullition.  she own it most

reluctantly; but oh! she say, would James still forgive she, and not

believe such dreadful thing, but trust and be patient with she, and

perhaps Uncle Oliver might after all be set on go to Peru, and

beyond remonstrance.  then it would all come right--no, not right, for

granny have dread his going.  confuse and distress by the

conflicting claim, Clara be thankful for the present respite give to

she by Louis's promise that his father should sound her uncle as to his

wish and intention.  Lord Ormersfield's upright, unimpassioned

judgment appear like a sort of refuge from the conflict of the

various claim, and he be besides in a degree, her guardian, be the

sole executor of the only will which Mrs. Frost have ever make, soon

after the orphan come under her charge, give the Terrace to James,

and divide the money in the Funds between the two.



weeping, but not unhopeful--convinced, though not acknowledge

it--only pray for strength and patience, and hunger for one kind

word from James--Clara quit that almost brother, in whose counsel he

have constrain she to seek relief, and go to her own chamber, there

to throw herself on the guidance of that Friend, who sticketh close

than a brother.



the remain part of the day pass quietly.  James do not

consciously make any difference in his manner, mean to be still

affectionate, though disappoint, and pity her mistake, both as to

her present happiness and future good.



Lord Ormersfield and Walter arrive in the evening, and James apply

himself to find occupation for his brother-in-law, whom he keep out

of the way in the garden very satisfactorily.  the Earl be so soften

and sorrowful, that Clara hardly know he.  he deeply feel the loss of

the kind, gentle aunt, whose sympathy have be more to he than he have

know at the time; the last remnant of the previous generation, the

last link with his youth, and he be even more grieve for the blank

she leave with Louis than for himself.  by Louis's desire, he inquire

into Oliver's intention.  'must stay here,' be the answer.  'cann't

leave that child alone with the property.  I can look to the Equatorial

Company here--must do without I out there.  no, no, I cann't leave the

girl to her brother; he'd teach she his own nasty, spiteful temper, and

waste the property on all those brat.  no, I'm fix here; I must look

after Henry's child, fine girl, good-temper girl; take after Henry,

don't you think so?'



that Clara take after her father in anything but be tall and fair,

would hardly have be grant by any one who know she well than the

Earl, but he readily allow it, and Oliver proceeded:--'As long as she

do not marry, here I be; but I trust some one will soon take the care

of she off my hand--man who would look after the property well.  she's

a good girl too, and the fine figure in the whole county; lucky he

who get she.  I shall be sorry to part with the child, too, but I

shall be work for she, and there's nothing leave that care a rush

for I now, so I might as well be out of the way of the young thing.

I know the old place at Lima, and the place know I; and what do I

care for this now my mother be go?  if I could only see Clara safe

settle here, then I should care as little what become of I as I

suppose she would.'



the Earl be touch by the dreary, despond tone of the reply, and

report it to Louis and Clara with such term, that Clara's decision

be make at once, namely, that it would be wrong and cruel to cast away

her uncle, and be sway by James's prejudice; and Lord Ormersfield

tell she with grave approval that she be quite right, and that he

hope that James would recover from his unreasonable folly.



'make Jem forgive I,' say Clara, faintly, as her announcement of her

purpose, when she finally seek her room, oblige to be think meanly

of, rather than do ill, deny her fond affection, cut herself

off from all she love, and, with but this consolation, that she be

do as grandmamma would have bid she. oh, how her heart yearn

after home!



on the morrow, Clara sorrow in her solitary chamber alone with

faithful Jane, who, amid her burst of tear, feel the one

satisfaction, that her dear mistress have live to be bury like the

stock she come of, and who count the carriage and number the

scarf, like so many additional tribute from the affection of her dear

Master Oliver.



once on that day James be visibly startled from his heavy, stern mood

of compressed, indignant sorrow.  it be as he advance to the entrance

of the vault, and his eye be strike by a new and very handsome tablet

on the wall.  it be to the father, mother, and young brother and

sister, whose grave have be hastily make far away in the time of the

pestilence, the only dynevor who do not lie in the tomb of their

father.  for one moment James move near to his uncle.  could he

have speak then, what might not have follow? but it be impossible,

and the impulse pass away.



but he be kind when he hurry upstairs for a last embrace to Clara.

he still feel fondly, brotherly, and compassionate; and all the more,

because she have prove more weak against temptation than he have

expect.  his farewell be, 'good-bye, my poor Clara, God bless you.'



'oh, thank you!' cry Clara, from the bottom of her heart.  'you

forgive I, James?'



'I forgive; I be sorry for you, my poor child.  Mind, Dynevor Terrace

be still your home, if you do not find the happiness you expect in your

choose lot.'



'happiness!' but he have no time to hear.  he be go, while she sob

out her message of love for Isabel, and Louis run up, pale with

repressed suffering, and speak with difficulty, as he wring she

hand, and murmur, 'oh, Clara! may we but abide patiently.'



after his good-bye, he turn back again to say, 'I'm selfish; but let

I put you in mind not to let the Lima correspondence drop.'



'oh, no, no; you know I willn't.'



'thank you!  and let I leave you Mary's keynote of comfort, 'commit

thy way unto the Lord, and he will bring it to pass.''



'thank you,' say Clara, in her turn, and she be leave alone.









CHAPTER XII.



the FROST household.



  the wind of late breathe gently forth,

  now shift east, and east by north,

  Bare tree and shrub but ill, you know,

  could shelter they from rain or snow,

  step into their nest they paddle,

  themselves be chill, their egg be addle,

  soon every father bird and mother

  Grew quarrelsome, and peck each other.

                        Pairing Time Anticipated--cowper.





three week long do the session drag on, but on the joyful day when

release be give, Lord Ormersfield be surprised to find Mr. Dynevor's

card upon his table, with an address at Farrance's hotel.



Louis alone be at leisure to repair thither.  he find Clara alone,

look as if her grief be still very fresh, and, though strive to

speak gaily, the tear very near the surface.



'we be go abroad,' she say; 'Uncle Oliver think it a part of my

education, and declare he will not have I behind the Miss Brittons.

we be bind straight for Switzerland.'



'lucky girl,' say Louis.



'I'm sure I don't care for it,' say Clara; 'mountain and picture be

not a bit in my line, unless I have Isabel and you, Louis, to make I

care.'



'learn, then,' say Louis; 'it show that your education be defective.

yes, I see,' he continue, as Clara sign heavily, 'but you don't know

the good it will do you to have your mind forcibly turn aside.'



'if I could only sit quiet in a corner,' say Clara.



'so you will, in many a corner of a railway carriage.'



she smile a little.  'the truth be,' she say, 'that poor Uncle Oliver

cannot be quiet.  I cann't see what pleasure Italy will be to he, but

he be too miserable at home.  I never see such restless unhappiness!'

and her eye fill with tear.  'oh, Louis!  I be glad you would not

let I say anything about leave he.  sometimes when he bid I good

night, he put his arm round I, and say so pitifully that I do not

care for he.  do you know, I think mine be the little spar of love

that he try to cling to in the great ship wreck; and I feel quite

sorry and hypocritical that it be such a poor, miserable shre.'



'it will grow,' say Louis, smile.



'I don't know; he be terribly provoking sometimes--and without dear

granny to hinder the rub.  O, Louis! it be true that there be no

bear to stay at home in those great empty room!'



'and Jane?'



'oh, she go,' say Clara, recover a smile; 'she be firmly

persuade that we shall run into another revolution, and as she could

not frighten we by the description of your wound, she decide to come

and dress our when we get any.  dear old Jenny, I be glad she go;

she be the only creature I can talk to; but, Louis, before my uncle

come in, I have something to give you.'



it be the letter that Mary have write to her aunt since the parting,

and the spanish book which she have leave in her charge.



'it be very kind in you, Clara,' say Louis, fervently.



they talk of Mary, and a little of James, from whom Clara have once

hear; but it have be a stiff letter, as if a barrier be between

they, and then Mr. Dynevor come in, and seem pleased to find Louis

there; even ask he whether he could not join they on their tour,

and help Clara to speak French.



'no, thank you, sir,' say Louis, 'I be afraid my company bring no

good luck last time.'



'never mind that--manage well now--ha, Clara.'



'it would be very nice; but he have a great deal too much to do at

home,' say Clara.



Oliver would not be persuade that Fitzjocelyn would not meet they

abroad, and begin magniloquently talk of his courier, and his route,

and while he be look for the map, the two cousin smile, and Clara

said,--'Lucky you to have work at home, and to stay with it.'



'only I say, Clara, when you break down anywhere, send I a telegraph.'



'no such good luck,' sigh Clara.



'so he willn't come,' say her uncle, when he be go; 'but we shall

have he follow we yet--ha! ha!  never mind, Clara.'



Clara laugh.  she know what her uncle mean, but the notion be to

she too impossible and ridiculous even to need a blush.  she do not

think the world contain Louis's equal; but she have always know that

his love be dispose of, and she no more thought of wish for it

than for any other impossible thing.  his affection for Mary give she

no more pain than do that of James for Isabel; and she would have

treat with scorn and anger anything that impeach his constancy.

the pleasure with which he receive Mary's letter be the single

satisfaction that she carry away with she.



and so she be bear away, and her sad heart could not choose but be

somewhat enliven by change and novelty, while her uncle make it his

business to show she everything as rapidly as it could be see,

apparently with no relish himself for aught but perpetual movement.



so pass the autumn with Clara.  it be not much bright at Dynevor

Terrace.  Clara, be still under age, have it not in her power to

resign her half of her grandmother's income, even if her brother would

have accept it; and 70 pound make a difference in such an income as

James's, more especially as his innovation do not tend to fill the

school.



murmur be go about that Mr. Frost be severe, or that he be

partial.  some censure his old opinion, other his new study; one

have be affront by be almost tell his boy be a dunce, another

hate all this new-fangled nonsense.  the lady be all, to a woman,

up against his wife, her air, her poverty, her twin, and her

housekeeping; and seldom speak of her save to contrast she with good

old Mrs. Frost.  and then it be plain that something be wrong between

he and his uncle, and no one could believe but that his temper have

be the cause.  the good Miss Faithfulls struggle in vain to silence

scandal, and keep it from 'come round;' and luckily Isabel be the

last person likely either to hear or resent.



the boy meet with decrease number after the holiday; and James

receive they with undiminished energy, but with fail patience, and

a temper not improve by the late transaction at Cheveleigh, and

fret, as Louis have divine, by home care.



of all live woman, Isabel be one of the least form by habit or

education to be an economical housewife and the mother of twin.

maternal love do not develop into unwearied delight in infant

companionship, nor exclusive interest in baby smile; and while she have

great vision for the future education of her little maiden, she be

not desirous to prolong the time spend in their society, but in general

preferred peace and Sir Hubert.  on the other hand, James be an

unusually caress father.  after hour among rough inattentive boy,

nothing rest he so much as to fondle those tender creature; his

eld girl know he, and be in ecstasy whenever he approach; and

the little pair of baby, by their mere soft helplessness, give he an

indescribable sense of fondness and refreshment.  his little one be

all the world to he, and he could not see how a pattern mother should

ever be so happy as with they around she.  he forget the difference

between the pastime of an hour and the employment of a day.  the need

of such care on her part be the great since the nursery

establishment be deficient.  the grand nurse have almost abdicate on

the double addition to her charge, and have only be bribe to stay by

an ill-spare increase in wage, and a share in an underling, who be

also to help Charlotte in she housemaid's department.  nevertheless,

the nurse be always complain; the child, though healthy, always

cry, and their father always certain it be somebody's fault.  nor

do the family expense diminish, retrench his own indulgence as he

might.  it be the mistress's eye that be want, and Isabel do not

know how to use it.  the few domestic care that she perceive to be

her duty be go through as weary task, and her mind continue

involve in her own romantic world, where she be oblivious of all that

be troublesome or vexatious.  now and then she be aware of a sluggish

dulness that seem to be creep over her high aspiration--a want

of glow and feel on religious subject, even in the most sacred

moment; and she wonder and grieve at a condition, such as she have

never experience in what she have think far more untoward

circumstance.  she do not see the difference between do she good

when her will be thwart, and her present life of neglect and

indulgence.  nothing rouse she; she do not perceive omission that

would have fret woman of housewifely instinct, and her soft dignity

and smooth temper feel few annoyance; and though James could sometimes

be petulant, he be always withhold from reprove she both by his

enthusiastic fondness, and his sense that for he she have quit she

natural station of ease and prosperity.



on a dark hazy November afternoon, when the boy have be unusually

obtuse and mischievous, and James, wear-out, weary, and uncertain

whether his cut have alight on the most guilty head, strode home

with his arm full of latin exercise, launch they into the study, and

be run up to the drawing-room, when he almost fall over Charlotte,

who be scour the stair.



she give a little start and scream, and stand up to let he pass.  he

be about to rebuke she for do such work at such an hour; but he see

she flushed, panting, and evidently very tired, and his wrath be

avert.  hurry on to the drawing-room, he find Isabel eagerly

writing.  she look up with a pretty smile of greeting; but he only

run his hand through his already disorder hair, and exclaimed--



'our stair be like the Captain of Knockdunder's.  you never know they

be clean, except by tumble over the bucket and the maid.'



'be they be do?' say Isabel, quietly.  'I suppose the maid be

busy this morning.'



'and Charlotte, too!  she look half dead.  I think Ellen be to do

such work, and ought to have do it in proper time.'



'Little Catharine be so fretful, that Ellen cannot be spare from the

nursery.'



'I suppose she might be, if you be not absorb in that writing.'



'I have the child with I, while the servant be at dinner; but

Kitty be so troublesome, that I could not keep she.  I be particularly

anxious to finish this.'



'some people would think a sick child more engrossing than that--' he

have very nearly say trash, but he break off short.



'there be nothing really the matter with she,' begin Isabel,

composedly; but James do not wait to listen, and mutter, 'that girl

will be kill if she go on,' he run up to the nursery, whence he

already hear a sound of low fretting.



the child be sit on the nurse's lap, with a hot red spot on one

cheek, tease and disturb by the noise that the less one be

constantly make, as one lie in her cot, and the other be carry

about by the girl.  as he enter, she shriek joyously, and stretch

out her arm, and Kitty be at once cling, hug round his neck.

send Ellen down to finish the stair, he carry off the little

girl, fondle and talk to she, and happy in her perfect content.

but he do not go to the drawing-room.  'no, no, mamma must not be

interrupt,' he bitterly think, as he carry she down to the

fireless study, hang his plaid round himself and she, and walk up and

down the room with she, amuse she till she fall into a slumber on his

shoulder.



Isabel could not at once resume her pen.  her even temper be for once

ruffle, and her bosom swell at the thought that his reproach be

unjust; she be willing to do what be fitting, and he ought not to

expect she to be an absolute nursery-maid.  woman must keep up the tone

of their own mind, and she might be be useful to the world as well

as to her own family.  if he want a mere household drudge, why have he

not look elsewhere?  up go her queenly head, as she believe she

power be mean for other thing; but her heart give a painful throb

at the recollection that poverty have be her voluntary choice, and have

seem perfect felicity with James.  alas! she love, honour, and

admire he, as her upright, unselfish, uncompromise husband, but

worry, and rebuke, and tart answer, have make many a rent in the

veil in which her fancy have enfold he.  Sir Roland have disappear,

and James and Sir Hubert be fall far and far asunder.



and Isabel sigh, partly at the memory of the imaginary being for whom

she have take James, and partly at the future prospect, the narrow

sphere, the choice between solitude and dull society, the homely toil

that must increase, wear-out garment, perpetual alphabet, child

always whine, and James always irritated, think her remiss, and

come in with that furrow on his forehead, and his hair stand up

wildly.  she shrink from the contemplation, take her letter-case on her

knee, move close to the fire to profit by the light, stir up a

clear flame, and proceed with the benevolent hermit, who come to the

rescue when Sir Hubert be at the last gasp, and Adeline have receive

his beautiful resign word. the hermit have transport he into his

hut, and comfort Adeline, and be begin a consolatory harangue,

make revelation that be to set everything right, when just as he

have go as far as 'my son, know that I do not always wear this

amice,' there be a tap at the door, and she see Fitzjocelyn, who have

be at Oakstead for the last few week, attend to some matter

connect with his constituency.



'ah! be it you?' she say, her lap too full of paper for she to rise.

'I do not know you be come home.'



'I come yesterday; and what company do you think I have in the train as

far as Estminster?'



'ah, I can guess! how do Louisa look?'



'rather languid; but Estminster be to work wonder.  she declare that

Northwold be her good cure, and I be speculate whether she will

prevail.  I think Lady Conway dread your example.'



'Mamma do not allow for the force of imagination,' say Isabel, not

exactly know what prompt either the word or the sigh.



'I be come to ask if you will kindly give I a dinner.  my father be

go to the book-club meeting, so I think we would try to revive old

time,' he say, smile, but sadly, for the present scene be little

like the no. 5 of old time.



'we shall be delighted,' say Isabel, with alacrity, relieve at

avoid a tete-it-tete with her husband at present, and refresh by

the sight of one belong to her former life, and external to her

present round of monotonous detail.  'fortunately, it be not a lecture

night and James will be very glad.'



I suppose he be not come in from school?'



'yea, he be.  I think he be in the study.  I will let he know,' she

say, with her hand on the bell.



'I will go to he,' say Louis, depart out of consideration that she

might wish for space to attend to dinner, room, and dress.  the two

last be scarcely in such a state as he have be use to see at No. 5:

book be on the sofa, the table-cover hung awry; the Dresden

Shepherd's hat be grime, and his damsel's sprigged gown hem with

dust; there be no flower in the vase, which his aunt have never leave

unsupplied; and Isabel, though she could not be otherwise than handsome

and refine, have her crape rumple, and the heavy fold of her dark

hair look quite ready for the evening toilette; and, as she sit on

her low seat by the fire, the whole have an indescribable air of comfort

pass into listless indulgence.



Fitzjocelyn politely apologize to Ellen for a second time step

over her soapy deluge, and, as he open the study door with a

preliminary knock, a voice, as sharp and petulant as it be low, call

out, 'Hollo!  be quiet there, cann't you!  you've no business here yet,

and I have no time to waste on your idleness.'



'I be sorry to hear it,' say Louis, advance into the dim light of

the single bed-room candle, which only serve to make visible the

dusky, unshuttered window, and the black gulf of empty grate.  James

be sit by the table, with his child wrap in the plaid, asleep

on his breast, and his disengaged hand employ in correct

exercise.  without move, he hold it out, purple and chill,

exclaim, 'ha! Fitzjocelyn, I take you for that lout of a Garett.'



'be this an average speciman of your reception of your scholar?'



'I be afraid of his wake the child.  she have be unwell all day,

and I have scarcely persuade she to go to sleep.'



'Emulating Hooker.'



'as little in patience as in judgment,' sigh James.



'and which of they be it who be lull by the strain of 'as in

proesenti?''



'which?' say James, somewhat affront.  'cann't you tell sixteen

month from five?'



'I beg her pardon; but I cann't construct a whole child from an inch of

mottled leg--as Professor Owen would a megalosaurus from a tooth. do

she walk?'



'poor child, she _must_!' say James.  'she think it very hard to have

two sister so little young than herself,' and he peep under the

plaid at the little brown head, and draw it close round, with a look

of almost melancholy tenderness, guard carefully against touch

she with his cold hand.



'she will think it all the well by-and-by,' say Louis.



'you have well not stay here in the cold.  I'll come when I have hear

that boy's imposition and look over these exercise.'  and he run his

hand through his hair again.



'don't!  you look like enough to a lion look out of a bush to

frighten ten boy already,' say Louis.  'I'll do the exercise,'

pull the copy-book away.



'what, you don't trust I?' as James detain they.



'no, I don't,' say James, his cousin's brightness awakening his

lively manner.  'it need an apprenticeship to be up to their

blunder.'



'let I read they to you.  I give notice to Isabel that I be come to

dinner, and no doubt she have rather I be dispose of.'



James object no far, and the dry labour be illuminate by the

discursive remark and moralizing which Louis allow to flow in their

natural idle course, both to divert his dispirit cousin, and to

conceal from himself how much cause there be for depression. when the

victim of the imposition approach, Louis prevent the dread clumsy

entrance, seize on a Virgil, and himself hear the fifty line,

scarcely make they serve their purpose as a punishment, but send

the culprit away in an unusually amiable temper.



service from Louis be too natural to James to be requite with

thank; but he be not uncivil in his notice of a wrong tense that have

be allow to pass, and the question be argue with an eagerness

which show that he be much enliven.  on the principle that Louis

must care for all that be his, as he rise to take the still-sleep

child upstairs, he insist that his cousin should come with he, if

only for the curiosity of look at the other two little animal, and

learn the difference between they and Kitty, at whom he still look

as if her godfather have insult she.



it be pretty to see his tenderness, as he detach the little girl

from her hold, and lay she in the cot, make a little murmuring

sound; and boast how she would have show off if awake, and laugh

over her droll little jealousy of his even touch the twin.  as

she be asleep, he might venture; and it be comical to hear he

declare that no one need mistake they for each other, and to see he

try to lay they side by side on his knee to be compare, when they

would roll over, and interlace their little scratch finger; and

Louis stand by tease he, and make he defend their beauty in term

that become extravagant.  he be really happy here; the careworn look

smooth away, the sharpness leave his tone, and there be nothing but

joyous exultation and fondness in his whole manner.



the smile do not last long, for Louis be well-nigh throw downstair

by a dustpan in a dark corner, and James be hear mutter that

nothing in that house be ever in its right place; and while Louis be

suggest that it be only himself who be not in the right place,

they enter the drawing-room, which, like the lady, be in the same

condition as that in which he have leave it.  since Isabel have lose

Marianne and other appliance, she have think it not worth while to

dress for dinner; so nothing have happen, except that the hermit have

prove to be Adeline's great uncle, and have begin to clear up the

affair of the sacrilege.



he be reluctant to leave off when the gentleman appear; but isabel

shut he up, and quietly hold out the portfolio to James, who put it on

the side-table, and begin to clear the book away and restore some sort

of order; but it be a task beyond his effort.



Dinner be announce by Charlotte, as usual, all neat grace and

simplicity, in her black dress and white apron, but flushed and heat

by exertion beyond her strength.  all that depend on she have be

well do; but it would not seem to have occur to her mistress that

three people eat more than two; and to Louis, who have be too busy to

take any luncheon, the two dish seem alarmingly small.  one be of

haricot mutton, the other of potato; and Charlotte might be see to

blush as she carry Lord Fitzjocelyn the plate contain a chop

resemble indian rubber, decorate with grease and with two ball of

nearly raw carrot, and follow it up with potato apparently all

bruise.



Louis talk vigorously of Virginia and Louisa--secretly marvel how

his host have bring themselves down to such fare.  Isabel be dining

without apparently see anything amiss, and James attempt nothing

but a despairing toss of his chin, as he pronounce the carrot

underdone.  after the first course there be a long interval, during

which Isabel and Louis composedly talk about the public meeting which

he have be attend, and James fidgette in the nervousness of

hardly-restrain displeasure; but suddenly a frightful shrieking

arise, and he indignantly cry, 'that girl!'



'Poor Charlotte in her hysteric again,' say Isabel, move off,

quickly for she, with the purple scent-bottle at her chatelaine.



'Isabel make she twice as bad,' exclaim James; 'to pet she with

eau-de-Cologne be mere nonsense.  some day I shall throw a bucket of

cold water over she.'



Isabel have leave the door open, and they hear she softly comfort

Charlotte with 'never mind,' and 'Lord Fitzjocelyn would not care,'

till the storm lull.  Charlotte creep off to her room, and Isabel

return to the dinner-table.



'well, what's the matter now?' say James.



'Poor Charlotte!' say Isabel, smile; 'it seem that she trust to

make a grand appearance with the remain of yesterday's pudding, and

that she be quite overset by the discovery that Ellen and Miss

Catharine have be maraud on they.'



'you don't mean that Kitty have be eat that heavy pudding at this

time of night?' cry James.



'Kitty eat everything,' be the placid answer, 'and I do not think we

can blame Ellen, for she often come down after our dinner to find

something for the nursery supper.'



'thing go on in the most extraordinary manner,' mutter James.



'I suppose Charlotte miss Jane,' say Louis.  'she look ill.'



'no wonder,' say James, 'she be not strong enough for such work. she

have no method, and yet she be the only person who ever think of do

a thing properly.  I wish your friend Madison would come home and take

she off our hand, for she be always alternate between fit of

novel-reading and of remorse, in which she nearly work herself to

death with run after lose time.'



'I should be sorry to part with she,' say Isabel; 'she be so quiet,

and so fond of the child.'



'she will break down some day,' say James; 'if not before, certainly

when she hear that Madison have a peruvian wife.'



'there be no more to come,' say Isabel, rise; 'shall we come

upstairs?'



James take up the candle, and Louis follow, considerably hungry, and

for once provoke by Isabel's serene certainty that nobody care

whether there be anything to eat.  however, he have forget all by

the time he come upstairs, and begin to deliver a message from Lady

Conway, that she be go to write in a day or two to beg for a visit

from Isabel during her sojourn at Estminster, a watering-place about

thirty mile distant.  Isabel's face light with pleasure. 'I could

go?' she say, eagerly turn towards James.



'oh, yes, if you wish it,' he answer, gruffly, as if vex at her

gratification.



'I mean, of course, if you can spare I,' she say, with an air of more

reserve.



'if you wish it, go by all mean.  I hope you will.'



'the Christmas holiday be so near, that we may both go,' say Isabel;

but James still have not recover his equanimity, and Louis think it

well to begin talk of other thing; and, turn to James, launch

into the result of his Inglewood crop, and the grand draining plan

which be to afford Marksedge work for the winter, and in which his

father have become much interested.  but he do not find that ready heed

to all that occupy he of which he use to be certain at the Terrace.

Isabel care not at all for farming, and take no part in 'mere country

squire's talk;' and James be too much overburthene with trouble and

anxiety to enter warmly into those of other.  of those to whom

Louis's concern have be as their own, one have be take from he,

the other two be far away; and the cold 'yes,' 'very good,' fall

coldly on his ear.



the conversation revert to the school; and here it appear that two

year' experience have take away the freshness of novelty, and the

cycle of disappointment have begin.  More boy be quit the school

than the new-comer could balance; and James speak with acute vexation

of the impracticability of the boy, and the folly of the parent.  the

attendance at his evening lecture have fall off; and he declare that

there be a spirit of opposition to whatever he do. the boy

disobey, know that they should be favour at home, and if they

be punish, the parent talk of complaint to the trustee.  the

Sunday teaching be treat as especially obnoxious: the genteel

mother talk ridiculously about its resemble a charity-school, the

father do not care whether their son go or not, and he have

scarcely five boy who appear there regularly, and of they one be

the butcher's son, who come rather in spite of his parent than with

their consent.  Attendance at church be more slack than ever; and when

he lecture the defaulter, and give they additional task in the week,

it be resent as an injustice.  to crown all, Mr. Ramsbotham have

call, and have be extremely insolent about a boy whose ear have be

box for read Pickwick in school, under cover of his Latin grammar,

and Isabel be almost indignant with Miss Faithfull for having venture

to hint to she that she wish Mr. Frost would be a little more gentle

with the boy.



Isabel be fully alive now, and almost as vehement as her husband, in

her complaint against his many foe.  there be no lack of sympathy

here, indeed, there might be rather too much, for she do not afford

the soften influence that James have hitherto find at home.



'well, Jem,' say Louis, at last, 'I think you should keep your hand

off the boy.'



'you be not bite with the nonsense about personal dignity and

corporal punishment?' say James.



'by no mean.  I have an infinite respect for the great institution of

flog; but a solemn execution be one thing, a random stroke another.'



'theory be very good thing till you come to manage two score dunce

without sense or honour.  there be only one sort of appeal to their

feeling that tell.'



'maybe so, but I have my doubt whether you be the man to make it.'



Louis be sorry he have so speak, for a flush of pain come up in

James's face at the remembrance of what Fitzjocelyn have long ago

forget--a passionate blow give to deter he from a piece of wilful

mischief, in which he be persist for the mere amusement of

provoking.  it stand out among all other variety of cuff, stroke, and

knock, by the trace it have leave, by Mrs. Frost's grief at it, and the

forgiveness from the Earl, and it have be the most humiliating

distress of James's childhood.  it humble he even now, and he

answered--



'you may be right, Louis; I may be not sufficiently alter since I be

a boy.  I have strike hard than I intend more than once, and I have

tell the boy so.'



'I be sure, if they have any generosity, they would have be touch

with your amend,' cry Isabel.



'after all, a schoolmaster's life do not tend to mend the temper,'

conclude James, sighing, and pass his hand over his forehead.



'no,' think Louis, 'nor do Isabel's mutton!'









CHAPTER XIII.



the CONWAY household.



  and ye shall walk in silk attire,

    and sill hae to spare,

  Gin ye'll consent to be his bride,

    nor think of Donald mair.

                   Miss BLAMIRE.





what make you so lame to-day?' ask Lord Ormersfield, as Louis

cross the library, on return from an interview to which he have

be summon in another room.



'I only stumble over an obstruction on the Frost staircase yesterday,'

say Louis. 'Poor Jem choose to have I up to the nursery; and to see

he in the paternal character be the funniest as well as the

pleasantest spectacle the house afford.'



'ah! it be not what it be,' say the Earl.  'I suppose I must call

there before the holiday, though,' he add, reluctantly.  'but what

do that man, Ramsbotham, want with you?'



'to ask our interest for that appointment for his friend Grant.'



'indeed! what could bring he here?'



'why, unluckily, he fancy he have some claim on I, on the score of

Jem Frost's election.  I be too innocent then to know what those

thing go for.'



'you may say so!' ejaculate the Earl.  'so he be insolent enough to

bring that up, be he?'



'bad,' say Fitzjocelyn; 'he want to threaten that, unless I would

oblige he now, there be matter which it be his duty to lay before

the trustee.  I tell he he would do, of course, whatever be his

duty; whereupon he think my Lordship be interested in Mr. Frost.'



'intolerably impertinent!  I hope you set he down!'



'I tell he that neither Mr. Frost nor I should wish he to pretermit

his duty on any consideration whatever.  then he hark back to what he

do for we at the election; and I be force to tell he that if he

consider that he have thereby establish a claim on I, I must own

myself in his debt; but as to reciprocate it, by put in a person

like Grant, that be against my conscience.  he fly into a passion,

inform I that Mr. Frost would take the consequence, mount the

British Lion, and I bow he out upon that majestic quadrupe, talk

grandly of illiberal prejudice and the rise generation.'



'you acknowledge that he have a claim on you?'



'as thing go in this world, I suppose it be true.'



'Louis! you will never know how to deal with those people.'



'I be afraid not.  I could not, either boldly or diplomatically, get

rid of the charge; so there be nothing for it but to confess. that's

not the bad of it.  I be afraid he really will be able to take

revenge on poor Jem, and I'm sure he cann't afford to lose any more

scholar.'



'such a fellow as that will not have much in his power against James,'

say Lord Ormersfield.  'what I be afraid of be, that you have cut the

ground from under your foot.  I cannot see how you be ever to stand

for Northwold.'



'nor I,' say Louis.  'in fact, father, I have always think it most

wonderfully kind forbearance that you never reproach I more for my

doing on that occasion.  I believe we be all too happy,' he

presently add, with a sigh, which be re-echo by his father, at the

same time try to say something about youthfulness, to which Louis,

who have be lean thoughtfully on the mantelpiece, presently

answered--'How much wise old people be than young!  an original

axiom, be not it? but it be the last which one learn!'



'you would hardly act in the same way now?' say his father.



'I wonder when it ever answer to interfere with the natural course of

event!' respond Louis, musingly.  'there be two thing that Mr.

Calcott tell I once upon a time.'  those two thing he leave unuttered.

they be--that the gentleman would be waste on the school, and that

the lady be not make for a poor man's wife.  no wonder they make he

sigh, but he conclude by exclaim aloud--



'well, I hope they will both go to Estminster, and come back with fresh

life!'



the Estminster invitation be already on the road; but, unfortunately,

Lady Conway have be unable to secure lodging large enough to receive

the child.  she be urgent, however, that Isabel should come as soon

as possible, since Louisa have be more unwell than usual, and be

pine for her eld sister; and she hope that James would join she

there as soon as the holiday should set he free.



James be hurt to find Isabel so much delight to go, but resolve

that she should not be deprive of the pleasure, and petulantly deny

the offer, which become even entreaty, that she might wait till he

could accompany she.  he arrange, therefore, that he should follow she

in a fortnight's time, the Miss Faithfulls undertake the charge of

their small namesake; and Lady Conway write to fix a day when Delaford

should come to take care of Isabel on her journey.



James and Isabel laugh at this measure.  Mrs. James Frost be

certainly not in circumstance to carry such a hero of the buttery in

her suite; and Lady Conway herself have more sense than to have propose

it, but for Delaford's own representation.  in fact, there be a

pretty face at Dynevor Terrace, and he have be pique enough by the

return of his letter to be resolve on re-establish his influence.

therefore do he demonstrate to my Lady that the only appropriate

train would bring he to Northwold at seven in the evening, and take

he and Mrs. James Frost Dynevor away at eleven next morning; and

therefore do Isabel look up in a sudden fit of recollection, as the

breakfast be be remove, and say, 'Charlotte, Delaford be come on

Tuesday to fetch I to Estminster, and will sleep here that night.'



Isabel little guess that in the day when she view the fantastic

Viscount as her great enemy, the announcement of his approach would

have be far less appalling to she.



'the wretch! the traitor! the vile deceiver!' think Charlotte, not

chary of her epithet, and almost ready to wreak her vengeance on the

silver spoon.  'he have go and break poor Marianne's heart, and now

he want to treat I the same, and make I faithless to poor Tom, that

be up in the mountain-top and trust to I!  o I, what shall I do?

Mrs. Beckett be go, and there's no one to give I an advice! if I

speak to he or scorn he, he'll take his advantage all alike--and his

word be so fine and so soft, that do what I will to hate he when I'm

away, he be sure to wind round I when he's there; and I cann't get

away, and I'm a poor, lonely, fatherless and motherless orphan, and a

vain girl, that have listen already to his treacherous suit more than

poor Tom would think for.'



Charlotte work on in much grief and perplexity for some minute,

revolve the vanity that have lead to her folly, and humble herself

in her own eye.  suddenly, a flash of thought cross she, and wake a

smile upon her face, almost a look of mischief.  she tie on a clean

apron, and run upstairs, open the drawing-room door, and say,

'if you please, ma'am, might I ask Miss Faithfull's Martha to tea on

Tuesday night?'



'oh yes, if you like,' say Isabel, never raise her eye from the

rebuilding of the ruin chapel in the valley.



Away skip Charlotte, and in two minute be at the back door of the

House Beautiful.  Mrs. Martha have be grimly kind to she ever since

she have be afflict with the cook for a fellow-servant, and receive

she only with a reproof for come gad out, when she ought to be

hard at work; but when she hear the invitation, she become

wrathful--she have rather go ten mile out of her way than even look at

'that there Ford.'



but Charlotte explain her purpose, and implored, and put she in mind

that Mrs. Beckett be go, and she have no protector; and Martha

relent, tell she that if she have mind she she would never have be

in the scrape at all, but agree, not without satisfaction, to afford

Mr. Delaford the society of his old acquaintance.



and so when Mr. Delaford, with his whisker freshly curl and his

boot in a state of fascinating polish, walk up Dynevor Terrace, the

door be open by Ellen, and the red-faced cook and the upright Mrs.

Martha sit on either side the fire.  daintily do he greet they, and

stand warm himself before the fire, adapt his conversation to

they for the next ten minute, before he venture to ask whether Miss

Arnold be still an inmate.  'take out dinner--take in tea,'

gruffly reply Martha.



Mr. Delaford wait, but Ellen only run in for one moment to fetch the

kettle, and Martha discourse as usual on the gold mine in Peru.

by-and-by, when the parlour tea could by no possibility be suppose to

be far prolonged, there sweep into the kitchen the stately nurse.

Charlotte have run up to the nursery, and beg as a favour that she

might be leave to watch the child, while Mrs. Nurse entertain Mr.

Delaford below-stair; and in pity to so grand a gentleman, constrain

to mix with such 'low servant,' the nurse have yield, and Charlotte

sit safe and sound by the nursery fire, smile at his discomfiture,

and read over Tom's letter with an easy conscience than for many

a day.



Mr. Delaford be too much of a gentleman to be uncivil to the three

dame by the kitchen fire, but he watch every step and every creaking

door.  he even go the length of come up to family prayer, in hope

of there meet Charlotte; but she only join the procession at the

parlour door, and have fly upstairs, like a little bird, before he be

out again.



the gentleman be affront, and resolve to make she feel it.  they

could not but meet at the kitchen breakfast, and he barely acknowledge

she.  this be the most try stroke of all, for it set she, in the

eye of the cook and nurse, on a level with the inferior servant, to

whom he would not have deign a look, and it be not easy to resist

show that she be on more familiar term with he than all.  but the

instinct of self-protection and the wisdom of sincerity come to her

aid.  she abstain from raise her eye to his face, from one

conscious word or glance; she lock herself into her pantry when she

take down the breakfast-thing, and avoid every encounter, even when

she have begin to feel that it would have be more flattering have he

make more effort.  at last, dire necessity oblige she to accept his

aid in carry her mistress's box down the stair.  he walk

backwards, she forwards.  she would not meet his eye, and he be too

well-breed for one word on the stair; but in the garden he exclaim,

'Miss Arnold, what have I do?'



'I never ought to have listen to you,' say Charlotte.  'it be not

right by neither of we; so please say no more.'



'if you could understand--'



'I don't want to understand nothing.'



Charlotte drive he on with the box till they be close to the fly,

and then, leave he and the man to adjust the packing, fly back to

announce that all be ready for her mistress.  the last kiss be

give to the child, and a message leave with Charlotte for her

master, who be in school; then she stand with Miss Catharine in her

arm, and see the fly drive off.



'well,' say Mrs. Cook, 'that butler think himself a great beau, no

doubt!  I ask he whether he think you pretty, Charlotte, and he

say you haven't no air nor no complexion.  it's as I tell you--nobody

will never take no notice of you while you go about so dowdy.'



Charlotte do not know whether she be glad that the cook could not

tease she about Delaford, or mortify to be suppose beneath his

notice.  no air, forsooth!  she who have often hear it say that she

look like any lady!



'but oh,' say Charlotte to herself, as she spend her daily five

minute at noonday in quiet thought, 'be I not a poor silly thing not

to be thankful that care have be round I this time, and that I have

not be let to do nothing giddy nor false by Tom, whatever I may have

think!'



meanwhile, Isabel have find it much hard to part with her baby for

three week than it have seem at the first proposal; and there be

tear in her eye as she gaze at the peaked, red-tile roof of the old

grammar-school, and reckon the day and hour before her husband

would join she.



other association revive when she find herself at Estminster, and

be receive with shriek of joy, caress, and exclamation too fond

and foolish to bear repetition; and then the pale Louisa rest against

she, stroke her hand, and Lady Conway fondle she, and Virginia,

looking form and handsome, retreat a little way to study she and

declare that she be the same isabel, neither alter nor grow

old--it be all a dream that she have ever leave they.



she almost feel it so herself, so entirely do she fit into the old

habit, the little quiet dinner (only it seem unusually good), the

subsequent closing round the fire with the addition of Miss King and

Louisa, the easy desultory chat, the book with Mudie's stamp lie

about, the music which must be practise.  it be very like be Miss

Conway still; and when she awake the next morning to find it late, and

to the impulse of hurrying up, or _not_ hurrying, expect to find

James make breakfast himself, and cross at be make late for

school, she turn on her pillow, half doubt whether she have dream

these two year in one long night, and remember that captive

mermaid, who have but to resume her maritime headgear and return to her

native element, to forget the very existence of her fisherman husband

and child.  no! Isabel be not come to that! but she be almost

ashamed to enjoy her extra hour's repose; and then the leisurely

breakfast--nay, even the hot roll and clear coffee be appreciate;

and she sigh as she call up the image of the breakfast over an hour

ago, the grim kettle, the bad butter, the bad fire, and James, cold

and hurry, with Kitty on his knee gnaw a lump of crust.  it be a

contrast to Lady Conway read her letter and discuss engagement

with comfortable complacency, and Virginia make suggestion, and

Louisa's grave bright eye consult her, and Miss King quietly

put in a remark, and the anticipation of Walter's return, as if he

be the only person want.



the sister always resent their mother's habit of talk of 'poor

Isabel,' regard she as the happy of woman; and they be

confirm in their belief by see she look exceedingly well and

handsome, with perhaps a little more dignity and a sweet smile.

Virginia love to snatch private interview with Miss King, to express

her confidence in dear Isabel's felicity, in the infallibility and

other perfection of James, and in the surpass cleverness of little

Catharine; and Louisa be always sigh to behold the twin.  but, to

the delight of the school-room, the chapel in the valley be produce

in a complete form, and a very pretty romance it be; but the hermit

and the brilliant denouement be quite a shock to the young lady,

just when their tear be prepare, and Virginia be almost angry.



'oh, my dear, there be trouble enough in the world!' say Isabel;

'Hubert and Adeline have be my companion so long, that at least I

must leave they happy.'



'indeed,' say Miss King, 'I be almost surprised that you have be

able to finish they at all, with so much re-writing.'



to her surprise, Isabel blush, and her answer partook of

self-defence.  'James be so busy, and the child so young, that this

have be my great resource.  when my little girl be old, I must

begin educate in earnest.  I want to talk over Madame Neckar's book

with you, Miss King.'



'all system begin alike from infant obedience, I believe,' say the

governess.



'yes,' say Isabel, 'little Catharine be obedience itself with we. it

be curious to see how well she know the difference between we and the

nurse.  there be great tempest upstairs, and her papa take they

very much to heart.  he always have her downstair when he be at home;

and he have accustom she to so much attention, that there be no do

anything while she be by, or I would have she more with I.'



the self-justify tone rather puzzle Miss King.  she note likewise

that Isabel be backward in enter into detail of her home life, and

that she never say a word to encourage her sister's wish to visit

she at Northwold.  know Isabel as the governess do, she be sure

that she would not merely talk of thing on the surface, if her spirit

be fully content.  only once do she go any deeply, and that be as

she take up a little book of religious poetry of which she have be

very fond.  'ah!' she say, 'I don't feel these thing as I use.  I

think practical life dull one.'



'I should have say, practical life make thing real,' say Miss King.



Isabel have not find out that have duty and not do they be less

practical than have no particular task.



another cloud of mystery be over the relation with Mr. Dynevor and

Clara.  Isabel baffle all Lady Conway's inquiry and advice by

enter into no particular, but adhere to her own version of the

matter, 'that Mr. Dynevor have require of James condition incompatible

with his duty,' and not deign to explain either duty or condition,

as beyond the capacity of her hearer.



of Clara no account be vouchsafe, except that Isabel believe she be

abroad; 'they have be very much disappointed in she,' and Isabel be

afraid that she be a good deal alter; and the subject seem so

painful, that Virginia do not venture to push her inquiry any

far.



the great subject of interest in the Conway family be that Virginia

and Louisa be go to lose their maid; and the suggestion somehow

arise that Charlotte should be her successor.  it be agree on all

hand that nature have form she for a lady's-maid, and a few lesson

from a hairdresser would make her perfection; and she would be

invaluable in read to Louisa when restless and unable to sleep.



Isabel give herself credit for the most notable arrangement she have

ever make--promote the little maiden, whom she really like, and

relieve herself from the constant annoyance about spare Ellen from

the nursery by obtain a strong housemaid.  she have only a few

scruple, or rather she know that James would have some, as to expose

Charlotte to Delaford's attention after what she have hear in Clara's

letter; but the least hint on this score lead to a panegyric upon

Delaford's perfection--his steadiness, his prudence, his cleverness on

journey, his usefulness in take care of Walter. 'I know that Walter

be safe when he be with Delaford,' say Lady Conway.  and even the

sensible Miss King observe, smile, 'that there always _would_ be

nonsense between man and maidservant; and there be many more

dangerous place than the present.  she would watch over Charlotte, and

Fanshawe be quite to be trust.'



the Conway family know rather less about their own servant' hall than

they do of feudal establishment five hundred year ago.



still, Isabel, in her superior prudence, resolve to consult Fanshawe

on the true state of affair.  Fanshawe be a comfortable portly

personage, chiefly absorb in her cap and her good cheer, and fare

smoothly through life, on the principle of always say what be

expect of she, and never see anything to anybody's disadvantage.



she assure Mrs. James Frost that she do not think Delaford to blame;

many girl would be foolish about a man with personal advantage, but

she could not see it be his fault.  Poor Marianne have be always

weakly, and, 'after all, ma'am, some young woman will put construction

upon anything,' say Mrs. Fanshawe, decide that at least she should

make no mischief by sacrifice poor Marianne.



Isabel do not like to come to more individual inquiry, lest she

should prepare discomfort for Charlotte; but she easily satisfy

herself that all be as right as convenient, and have occasion to

write some order to Charlotte, communicate the proposal, say that

all should be settle on her return.



there be wild work in the brain of the poor little Lady of Eschalott.

no more stair to scrub!  no more mat to shake!  no more hurrying

after lose time, and an uneasy remembrance of undone duty! no more

hardening of finger, no more short-sleeve lilac, no more vulgarity

from the cook!  Ladylike dress, high wage, work among flower and

gauze, read to Miss Louisa, housekeeper's-room society, rank as

'Arnold' or 'Miss Arnold!'  how much more suitable to the betrothed of

the Superintendent at San Benito!  to be sure, she be aware that a

serpent lurk among the flower; but she have show he a bit of she

mind once, and she find she could take care of herself, and keep he

at a distance.



with her eye shut, she already behold Jane Beckett meet she, when

seat at the back of a carriage, with a veil and a parasol, address

she as a grand lady, and kiss and praise she when she find she

little Charlotte after all.









CHAPTER XIV.



the TRUSTEES' meeting.



  know you not, master, to some kind of man

  their grace serve they but as enemy?

                           as you like it.





'my Lord,' say Frampton, enter the library late one evening, in

visible perturbation, and address himself to Fitzjocelyn, 'there be

a person wish to see you.'



'what person at this time of night?' say Louis.



'in fact, my Lord,' say the butler, hesitate, 'it be the young

person at Mr. Frost's.'



'something must be the matter!' cry Louis, start up.



'she would explain nothing to I, she insist on see your lordship;

and--in fact--she be in such a state of agitation that I leave she with

Mrs. Bowles.'



Louis lose no time in hurrying into the hall.  Charlotte must have

follow Frampton without his knowledge, for she be already there;

and, spring with clasped hand towards Fitzjocelyn, she cry,

sob, 'my Lord, my Lord, come to master!'



'be he ill? or the child?'



'no, no! but he'll be off, he'll be off like poor Tom!' exclaim

Charlotte, between her gasp; 'but I've lock it!' and she wave a

door-key, and seem about to laugh hysterically.



'sit down, Charlotte,' say Louis, authoritatively, bring a chair.

'if you do not explain yourself reasonably at once, I shall call Mrs.

Bowles, and desire she to put you to bed.'



she make an implore gesture, sank tremble into the chair, and,

after a few incoherent effort, manage to speak--'If you would but

come to master, my Lord--I know it be something bad.'



Louis think it wisest to despatch Frampton at once to order the

carriage to be bring out immediately; and this so far pacify

Charlotte, that she could speak comprehensibly on the cause of her

alarm.  'he be in such a way!' she begin.  'he go out to the

school-examination, I believe, in his cap and gown, this morning; he

be go all day, but just at dusk I hear he slam-to the front door,

fit to shake the house down, like he do when he be put out. I'd a

think nothing of that; but by-and-by I hear he stamp up and down

the study, like one in a frenzy, and I find his cap and gown lie all

of a heap in a corner of the hall.  then, Mr. Calcott come to call; and

when I go into the study, master have his head down on the table, and

wouldn't see no one; he fairly stamp to I to be go, and bring he

no more message.  Mr. Calcott, he look so sorry and concerned, and

send in again.  I be to say that he hope some arrangement might be

make, if Mr. Frost would only see he; but master have lock the door,

and halloo out that I be to say he be oblige, but couldn't see

nobody.  so Mr. Calcott be force to go; and there be poor master.

not one morsel of dinner have he have.  I knock, but he would not open,

only say he do not want for nothing.  no, not even when 'twas time

for Miss Catharine to come down.   she thump at the door, and call

'papa' so pretty; but he never heed, except to call out, 'take she

away!'  Charlotte be cry so much that she could hardly proceed.

'then I know it must be something very melancholy indeed.  but

by-and-by he open the door with a great jerk, and run right up to the

lumber-room.  I see his face, and 'twa like a corpse, my Lord; and he

bring down his portmanteau into his dressing-room, and I hear he

pull out all his drawer.  'he'll be go!' I think, 'he'll be off

to America, too!  and my poor mistress!'  so I go up quietly, and in

secret, unbeknown to they all, and get my bonnet; and I've run every

step of the way--for you be the only one, my Lord, as can soothe his

wound spirit; and I've lock both the door, and here's the key, so

he cann't be go till you come.'



'lock the door!' cry Louis.  'what have you do?  suppose your

mistress or Miss Clara be ill?'



'oh, no--no, it be not that,' say Charlotte; 'or why should he flee

from the face of his child?  why, I take Miss Salome up to the top

of the stair, when she be scream and cry with all her might,

and you would not have think he be within a mile of she.  no, my

Lord, no one cann't do nothing but you.'



'I'll come at once,' say Louis.  'you do quite right to fetch I; but

it be a frightful thing to lock the door.'



send Charlotte to the housekeeper, he go to communicate she

strange intelligence to his father, who share his dismay so much as

almost to wish to come with he to Northwold; but Louis feel he could

deal well alone with James.  his fear take the direction of the

italian traveller, know that any misfortune to they must recoil on

James with double agony after such a parting.



in very brief space the carriage be at Northwold, and desire that it

should wait at the corner of the Terrace, Louis follow Charlotte, who

have jump down from the box, and hasten forward to unlock the door;

and he be in time to hear the angry, though suppress, greet that

receive she.  'pretty doing, ma'am!  so I have catch you out at

last, though you do think to lock I in!  he shalln't come in!  I wonder

at your impudence!  the very front door!'



'oh, cook, don't!'  the poor breathless voice manage at last to be

hear.  'this be Lord Fitzjocelyn.'



Cook have vanish out of sight or hearing before Louis's foot be

within the threshold.  the study-door be open, the fire expiring, the

book and paper push back; and James's fierce, restless tread be

hear pace vehemently about his own room.  Louis run hastily up, and

enter at once.  his cousin stand stare with wild eye, his hair be

toss and tangle, his face lividly pale, and the table be strew

with fragment of letter, begin and tear up again; his clothe lay

tumble in disorder on the floor, where his portmanteau lie open and

partly packed.  all Louis's bad alarm seem fulfil at once.

'what have happen?' he cry, catch hold of both James's hand, as

if to help he to speak.  'who be ill?--not Clara?'



'no--no one be ill,' say James, withdraw his hand, and kneeling

down by his box, with an air of feigned indifference; 'I be only go

to London.'



'to London?'



'Aye, to see what be to be done,--ship--chaplaincy, curacy, literature,

sell sermon at five shilling each,--what not. I be no long

master of Northwold school!'  he strove to speak carelessly, but

bend over his packing, thrust down the clothe with desperate blow.



Louis sit down, too much dismay to utter a word.



'one morning's work in the conclave,' say James, with the same assume

ease.  'here's their polite reprimand, which they expect I to put up

with,--censuring all my labour, forbid Sunday-class, accuse I

of partiality and cruelty, with a lot of nonsense about corporal

punishment and dignity.  I make answer, that if I be master at all, I

must be at liberty to follow my own view, otherwise I would resign;

and, would you believe it, they snap at the offer--they think it

highly desirable!  there's an end of it.'



'impossible!' cry Louis, cast his eye over the reprimand, and

find that the expression scarcely warrant James's abstract of

they.  'you must have mistake!'



'do you doubt _that_?' and James throw to he a sheet where, in

Richardson's clerkly handwriting, the trustee of King Edward's

Northwold Grammar School formally accept the resignation of the

Reverend James Roland Frost Dynevor.



'they cannot be so hasty!  do not Mr. Calcott call to gee you?'



'an old humbug!'



'I'll go and see he this instant.  something may be do.'



'no,' say James, hold he down by the shoulder, 'I will not be

degrade by vain solicitation.'



'this must be that wretched Ramsbotham!' exclaim Louis.  'oh, Jem! I

little think he have so much power to injure you.'



'it be as well you do not,' say James.  'it would have make no

difference, except in the pain it would have cost you; and the only

gratification in this business be, that I suffer because neither you

nor I would deny our principle.  I thank you, Fitzjocelyn!' and he

straighten himself in the satisfaction of persecute rectitude.



'you have very little to thank I for,' say Louis, wring his hand,

and turn aside, as if unable yet to face the full extent of the evil.



'never fear for we,' continue James, boldly; 'we shall struggle on.

men conscia,--you see I cann't forget to be a schoolmaster.'



'but what be you about?  where be you go?'



'to London.  you speak to a publisher about my lecture on history;

they will serve for introduction.  he may make I his hack--a willing

one, while I advertise--apply for anything.  I must be go!'



'you do not look fit for a night journey.  you would be too early at

Estminster to see Isabel.'



'don't name she!' cry James, start round as if the word be a

dart.  'thank Heaven that she be away!  I must write to she.  maybe,

Lady Conway will keep she till I be settle--till I have find some

lodge in London where no one will know we.'



'and where you may run up a comfortable doctor's bill.'



with a gesture--half passion, half despair--James reiterate, 'there's

no staying here.  I must be go.  I must be among stranger.'



'your men conscia would well prove that it have no cause for shame by

stay here, instead of rush out of sight into the human

wilderness, and sacrifice those poor little--'



James strike his foot on the floor, as though to intercept the word;

but Louis continue, apparently unmove by his anger--'Those poor

little child.  if misfortune and injury be no disgrace to the

injure, I call it cowardly pride to fly off by night to hide oneself,

instead of live in your own house, like an honest man.'



'Live!--pray what be I to live on?' cry James, laugh hoarsely.



'you will not find out by whirl to London in your present state.'



in fact, Louis's most immediate care be to detain he for that one

night.  there be a look of come illness about he, and his

desperate, maddened state of mind might obscure his judgment, and urge

he into some precipitate measure, such as he might afterwards rue

bitterly for the sake of the wife and child, the bare thought of

whom seem at present to ste he so intolerably.  moreover, Louis

have a vague hope that so harsh a proceeding would be abandon by the

trustee; his father would remonstrate, and James might be able to

think and to apologize.  he be hardly a rational be to-night, and

probably would have drive away any other companion; but long habit,

and external coolness, enable Louis to stand his ground, and to

protract matter till the clock, strike eleven, relieve he, as much

as it exasperate James, by prove it so late that the last train

would have already past.



he persist in declare that he should go by the first in the

morning, and Louis persuade he to go to bed, after Charlotte have

bring they some tea, which, he say, choke he.  decide on

sleep at no. 5, Louis send home the carriage, with a note to his

father; and Charlotte press her hand together in a transport of

gratitude when she find that he be not go to abandon her master.

she do she good to make the forlorn house comfortable; but it be but

cold comfort, with all the fire go out, and he be too sad and

anxious to heed it.



she be at his door early the next morning, with a summon more

alarming than surprising.  she be sure that master be very ill.



there be James lie across his bed, half-dress, turn away from

the dim morning light, and more frightfully pale than ever.  he start

angrily at Louis's entrance, and spring up, but fall back, insist

with all his might that nothing ail he but a common headache, which

need only to be leave quiet for an hour or two.  he say it venomously.



'a very uncommon headache,' think Louis.  'my belief be, that it be

little short of brain fever!  if I could only feel his pulse!  but it

would be very like take a mad dog's hand.  there's nothing for it but

to fetch old Walby.  he may have some experience of refractory

patient.'



'go home, Louis,' reiterate James, savagely, on open his eye and

find he not go.  'I tell you I want nobody.  I shall be in London

before night.'



and start up, he try to draw the curtain at his foot, to shut out

the tardy dawn; but too giddy to persevere, he sink back after one

noisy pull.



Louis draw it completely, shade the window, and would have settle the

pillow, but be not allow; and obtain an impatient grunt by way

of dismissal, he run down stair, catch up hat and stick, and set off

to summon Mr. Walby from his comfortable family breakfast-table.  the

good old doctor be more concerned than amazed.  he could hardly

surmount the shock to his trustee conscience, on hearing of the

consequence of yesterday's proceeding.



'I be much grieve at the time,' he say, as they walk to the

Terrace together.  'you will believe I that I be no willing party, my

Lord.'



'I could never believe that you would do anything hard towards any one,

Mr. Walby,' say Louis, kindly; and a few more like assurance lead the

old man to volunteer the history of the case in confidence.



Ramsbotham have bring before the meeting of the trustee a serious

mass of charge, on which he found a motion that Mr. Frost should be

request to resign.  every one reject such a measure, and the

complaint be sift.  some be palpably false, other exaggerate,

other relate to matter of principle; but deduct these, it still

be prove that the Sunday attendance and evening lecture be too

visibly the test of his favour, and that the boy be sometimes

treat with undue severity, savour of violent temper.  'I must

confess, my Lord,' say Mr. Walby, sink his voice, 'I be afraid Mr.

Frost be too prompt with his hand.  a man do not know how hard he

hit, when he knock a boy over the ear with a book.  Mrs. Barker's

little boy really have a gathering under the ear in consequence;--I see

it myself.'



Louis be confound; he have nothing to say to this; he know the force

that irritation give to James's hand too well to refuse his credence,

and he could only feel shame and dismay, as if himself guilty by his

misjudged patronage.



Mr. Walby proceed to say that, under the circumstance, the trustee

have decide on remonstrate by letter, after the examination; and it

be easy to perceive that the reprimand, which might have be wise and

moderate from the squire, have gain a colour from every one concern,

so as to censure what be right and aggravate what be wrong.  Mr.

Frost's reply have be utterly unexpected; Ramsbotham and the

bookseller have catch at the resignation, and so do the butcher, who

hate the schoolmaster for having instill inconveniently high

principle into his son. Richardson abstain from voting; Mr. Calcott

fight hard for Mr. Frost, but the grocer be ill, and only poor old

Mr. Walby support he, and even they feel that their letter have not

deserve such treatment.  Alas! have not Fitzjocelyn himself teach

Northwold that the squire be not a dictator?  even then, Mr. Calcott,

still hope that an apology might retrieve the day, have set forth to

argue the matter with James Frost, whom he could not suppose serious in

his intention, but think he mean to threaten the trustee into

acquiescence.  the door have be close against he, and Mr. Walby

fear that now the step be know, it be too late to retract it. 'the

lady would never allow it,' he declare; 'there be no saying how

virulent they be against Mr. Frost; and as to consideration for his

family, that rather inflame their dislike.  they have rich relation

enough!  it would be only too good for so fine a lady to be bring

down.'  every one have some story of her pride, neglect, or bad

housewifery.  'and I can tell you,' say Mr. Walby, 'that I be not in

their good book for declare that I never see anything from she but

very pretty, affable manner.'



with these word they reach the house; and with sigh and murmur of

'ah! poor young man!'  Mr. Walby follow Louis to the landing-place,

where they both pause, look at each other in doubt how to effect an

entrance, Louis suddenly remember that no presence would be more

intolerable to the patient than that of a trustee.  however, there be

nothing for it but to walk in, and announce, as a matter of course,

that he have think it right to call in Mr. Walby.



the extremity of displeasure bring James to his foot, and out into

the passage, say, with grave formality, that he be much oblige,

and glad to see Mr. Walby as a friend, but Lord Fitzjocelyn be

mistaken in think he in need of his advice.  many thank, he would

trouble he no far; and affect a laugh, he say that Fitzjocelyn

seem never to have hear of a bad headache.



'act do not mend matter, Jem,' say Louis.  'you have much well

confess how really ill you be.'



Excessive giddiness make James stagger against his cousin, and Louis,

throw his arm round he, look in great alarm to the doctor for

help, but be answer by something very like a smile.  'aye, aye, sir,

there's nothing for it but to go to bed.  if his lordship there have

see as many case of jaundice as I have, he would not look so

frightened.  very wholesome disorder!  yes, lie down, and I'll send you

a thing or two to take.'



so say, Mr. Walby help Louis to lay their unwilling invalid on the

bed without much resistance or reply, and presently depart, so

infinitely relieve that he could not help indulge in a little

chuckle at the young Viscount's mistake.  as soon as he be go, James

revive enough to protest that it be all nonsense, doctor must need

give a name to everything; if they would only let he alone, he should

be himself and off to London in two hour; and that it be Fitzjocelyn

himself who be look excessively ill, and as yellow as a guinea.  he

would not hear of undress and go absolutely to bed, and fairly

scold every one out of sight.  Good Miss Mercy, who have trot in at

the tiding of illness, stand at the nursery-door, telegraph sign

of commiseration in answer to Louis's look of perplexity.



'at least,' she say, 'you have well come to breakfast with we, and

hear what my sister say--Salome always know what be good.'



he soon find himself in the snug parlour, where the small round

breakfast-table, draw close to Miss Faithfull's fireside chair, have a

sort of doll's-house air of cheerful comfort, with the tiny plate,

tea-cup, and the miniature loaf, and the complicated spider-leg,

among which it be not easy to dispose of his own length of limb.



the meal pass in anxious consultation.  there might be no danger, but

the disorder be severe and increase.  James's health have long be

suffer from harass of mind, want of exercise, and unwholesome diet;

and the blow of the previous day have bring thing to a crisis.  there

he lay, perfectly unmanageable, permit neither aid nor consolation,

unable to endure the sight of any one, and too much stupefy by

illness to perceive the impracticability of his wild scheme of seek

employment in London.



Miss Faithfull pronounce that either Mercy or Lord Fitzjocelyn must go

and fetch Mrs. James Frost home.



'I be only think how long we could keep she away,' say Louis.

'pray don't be shock, dear Miss Mercy, but I think I could nurse

poor Jem much well alone than with another dead weight on our hand.'



'they would neither of they thank you,' say Miss Faithfull, laugh.

'depend upon it, she will know good how to deal with he.'



'well, you see more of their household than I do, but I have never

dare to think of she!  do you remember the word, 'if thou hast run

with the footman and they have weary thee--''



'there be some people who can run with the horseman well than with

the footman,' say Miss Salome.  'you know we be very fond of young

Mrs. Frost.  we cannot forget her sweetness when she live in this

house, and she have always be most kind and friendly.  I do believe

that to display the most admirable quality, she only need to be

rouse.'



'to live in the house with Jem, and Jem's three baby, and yet want

rouse!'



'I have think,' say Salome, diffidently, 'that he be only too

gentle with she.'



'do you know how very severe you be grow, Miss Faithfull?' say

Louis, look she in the face, in the gravity of amusement.



'I mean,' say Miss Faithfull, blushing, 'though of course I do not

know, that I have fancy it might be well for both if he could have

go to the root of the matter, and set fairly before she the prime

duty requisite in the mistress of such a family.  he may have do

so.'



'I think not,' say Louis; 'it would be awkward when a woman fancy

she embrace poverty voluntarily for his sake.  Poverty!  it be rich

compare with their present condition. isabel on 150 pound a-year!  it

may well make poor Jem ill to think about it!  I only wonder it be not

a brain-fever!'



'Lord Fitzjocelyn regret that brain-fever,' say Miss Faithfull.



'probably my idea on the subject be derive from the prevalence of

the complaint in light literature,' say Louis, smile.  'it would be

more dignified, and suit Isabel well.  Poor Isabel!  I hope I have

do her injustice.  she behave gloriously at the barricade, and have

a great soul after all; but I have begin to think heroine not

calculate for moderate circumstance.  may they do well in no

circumstance at all!  Heighho! how a heavy heart make one talk

nonsense!  so I be to fetch the poor thing home, Miss Faithfull.'



this be determine on, whether with or without James's consent; Miss

Mercy undertaking that she and Martha would help Charlotte, and dispose

of the child in the House Beautiful; and she go back with Louis to

fetch they, when little Catharine be find peep through the bar of

her prison-gate at the top of the nursery-stair, shout lustily for

papa.  she graciously accept she godfather as a substitute, and be

carry by he to her kind neighbour's house, already a supplementary

home.  as to her father, Louis find he more refractory than ever.

his only greeting be, 'why be not you go home?'  he scorn Mr.

Walby's prescription, and make such confident assertion that he

should be off to London in the evening, that Fitzjocelyn almost

revert to the brain-fever theory, and do not venture to hint his

intention to any one but Charlotte, tell she that he should now

almost think she justify in lock the door.



send information to his father, he start for Estminster, very

disconsolate, and full of self-reproach for the hasty proceeding which

have bear such bitter fruit.  the man and the situation have be an

injustice to each other; a sensitive irritable person be the very last

to be fit for a position require unusual judgment and temper, where

his energy have prey upon itself.  his be place there have be the

work of Louis's own impetuous scorn of the wisdom of eld and graver

head.  such regret derive additional poignancy from the

impossibility of confer direct assistance upon James, and from the

degree of justice in the hard measure which have be deal to he,

would make it for ever difficult to recommend he, and yet the devising

future scheme for his welfare be the refuge which Louis's mind most

willingly seek from the present perplexity of the communication in

store for poor Isabel.



as he put out his head at the Estminster station, a familiar voice

shout, 'Hollo!  Fitzjocelyn, how jolly!  have you get James there? I

tell Isabel it would be no use; but when she do not get a letter this

morning, she would have it that he be come, and get I to walk up

with she.'



'where be she?' ask Louis, as he jump out and shake hand with

Walter.



'walk up and down the esplanade.  she would not come into the

station, so I say I would run up to satisfy she.  I don't know what

she will say to you for not be frost.'



'do you mean that she be anxious!'



'it be the correct thing, ben't it, when wife get away from their

husband, and have not the fragment of a letter for twenty-four whole

hour?  but what do you mean, Fitzjocelyn?' ask the boy, suddenly

sober.  'be anything really the matter?'



'yes, Walter,' say Louis; 'we must tell your sister as well we can.

James be ill, and I be come for she.'



Walter be silent for a few minute, then draw a sigh, say, 'poor

Isabel, I wish it have not be!  these be the only comfortable

holiday I have have since she choose to marry.'



Isabel here come in sight, quicken her pace as she first see that

her brother have a companion, but slacken in disappointment when she

perceive that it be not her husband; then, the next moment hurry

on, and as she meet they, exclaim, 'tell I at once! what be it?'



'nothing serious,' say Louis.  'the child be all well, but I leave

James very uncomfortable, though with nothing bad than a fit of

jaundice.'



the inexperienced Isabel hardly know whether this be not as

formidable as even the cherish brain-fever, and become very pale,

she say, 'I be ready at once--Walter will let mamma know.'



'there will be no train for two hour,' say Louis.  'you will have

plenty of time to prepare.'



'you should have telegraph,' say Isabel, 'I could have come by the

first train.'



Trembling, she grasp Walter's arm, and begin hasten home,

impatient to be do something.  'I know something be wrong,' she

exclaim; 'I ought to have go home yesterday, when there be no

letter.'



'indeed, there--be nothing the matter yesterday, at least, with his

health,' say Louis.  'you be alarm yourself far too much--'



'to be sure, Isabel,' chime in Walter.  'a fellow at my tutor's have

it, and do nothing but wind silkworm's silk all the time.  we shall

have James yet to spend Christmas with we.  everybody laugh at the

jaundice, though Fitzjocelyn do look so lugubrious that he have almost

frighten _I_.'



'be this true?' say Isabel, look from one to the other, as if she

have be frighten in vain.



'quite true, Isabel,' say Walter.  'never mind Fitzjocelyn's long

face; I wouldn't go if I be you!  don't spoil the holiday.'



'I must go, Walter dear,' say Isabel, 'but I do not think Lord

Fitzjocelyn would play with my fear.  either he be very ill, or

something else be wrong.'



'you have guess it, Isabel,' say Louis.  'this illness be partly the

effect of distress of mind.'



'that horrid meeting of trustee!' cry Isabel.  'I be sure they have

be impertinent.'



'they object to some of his doing; he answer by threaten to

resign, and I be sorry to say that the opposition set prevail to have

his resignation accept.'



'a very good thing too,' cry Sir Walter.  'I always think that

school a shabby concern.   to be under a lot of butcher and baker,

and nothing but cad among the boy!  he ought to be heartily glad to

be rid of the crew.'



Isabel's indignation be check by a sort of melancholy amusement at

her brother's view, but Louis doubt whether she realize the weight

of her own word as she answered--'Unfortunately, Walter, it be nearly

all we have to live upon.'



'so much the well,' continue Walter.  'I'll tell you--you shall all

go to Thornton Conway, and I'll come and spend my holiday there,

instead of kick my heel at these stupid place.  I shalln't mind your

baby a bit, and Frost may call himself my tutor if he like. I don't

care if you take I away from Eton.'



'a kind scheme, Walter,' say Isabel, 'but want in two important

point, mamma's consent and James's.'



'oh, I'll take care of mamma!'



'I'm afraid I cann't promise the same as to James.'



'ah! I see.  Delaford be quite right when he say Mr. Frost be a

gentleman who never know what be for his own advantage.'



as they arrive at the house, Isabel desire to know how soon she must

be ready, and go upstairs.  Walter detain his cousin--'I say,

Fitzjocelyn, have they really get nothing to live on?'



'no more than will keep they from absolute want.'



'I shall take they home,' say Walter, with much satisfaction. 'I shall

write to tell James that there be nothing else to be do. I cannot do

without Isabel, and I'll make my mother consent.'



Fitzjocelyn be glad to be free from the boy on any term, and to see

he go off to write his letter.



Walter be at least sincere and warm-hearted in his selfishness, and so

more agreeable than his mother, whom Louis find much distressed, under

the secret conviction that something might be expect of she. 'poor

Isabel!  I wish she could come to I; but so many of they--and we

without a settle home.  if there be no child--but London house

be so small; and, indeed, it would be no true kindness to let they

live in our style for a little while.  they must run to expense in

dress; it would be much more economical at home, and I could send

Walter to they if he be very troublesome.'



'thank you,' say Louis.  'I think James will be able to ride out the

storm independently.'



'I know that would be his wish.  and I think I hear that Mr. Dynevor

object to the school.  that might be one obstacle remove.'



Lady Conway comfort herself by flourish on into prediction that

all would now be right, and that poor dear Isabel would soon be a much

rich woman than herself; while Louis listen to the castle-building,

not think it worth while to make useless counter-prophecy.



the sister be upstairs, assist Isabel, and they all come down

together.  the girl be cry; but Isabel's dark, soft eye, and

noble head, have an air of calm, resolute elevation, which drive all

Louis's misgiving away, and which seem quite beyond and above the

region of Lady Conway's caress and affectionate speech.  Walter and

Virginia come up to the station, and part with their sister with

fondness that be much mure refresh, Walter reiterate that his be

the only plan.



'now, Fitzjocelyn,' say Isabel, when they be shut into a coupe,

'tell I what you say about distress of mind.  it have haunt I

whether you use those word.'



'could you doubt his distress at such a state of affair?'



'I think there could be no distress of mind where the suffering be

for the truth.'



'ah! if he could quite feel it so!'



'what do you mean?  there have be a cabal against James from the first

to make he lay aside his principle, and I cannot regret his refusal

to submit to improper dictation, at whatever cost to myself.'



'I be afraid he well know than you do what that cost be likely to

be.'



'do he think I cannot bear poverty?' exclaim Isabel.



'he have not say so--' begin Louis; 'but--'



'you both think I a poor, helpless creature,' say Isabel, her eye

kindling as they have do in the midst of danger.  'I can do well

than you think.  I may be able myself to do something towards our

maintenance.'



he could not help answer, in the tone that give courtesy to almost

any word, 'I be afraid it do not answer for the wife to be the

bread-winner.'



'then you doubt my writing be worth anything?' she ask, in a hurt

tone of humility.  'tell I candidly, for it would be the great

kindness;' and her eye unconsciously seek the bag where lay Sir

Hubert, whom all this time her imagination be exalt, as the hero

who would free they from their distress.



'worth much pleasure to I, to the world at large,' say Louis;

'but--you tell I to speak plainly--to your home, would any

remuneration be worth your own personal care?'



Isabel colour, but do not speak.



Louis venture another sentence--'It be a delicate subject, but you

must know well than I how far James would be likely to bear that

another, even you, should work for his livelihood.'



when Isabel speak again, it be to ask further particular; and when he

have tell all, she find solace in exclaim at the folly and injustice

of James's enemy, until the sense of fairness oblige he to say, 'I

wish the right and the wrong ever be fairly divide in this world;

and yet perhaps it be good as it be: the grain of right on either side

may save the sin from be a presumptuous one.'



'it would be hard to find the one grain of right on the part of the

Ramsbotham cabal.'



'perhaps you would not think so, if you be a boy's mother.'



'oh!' cry Isabel, with tear in her eye, 'if he think he have be

too hasty, he always make such reparation that only coward could help

be touch.  I'm sure they deserve it, and much more.'



'no doubt,' say Louis; 'but, alas! if all have their deserts--'



'then you really think he be too severe?'



'I think his constitutional character be hardly fit for so try a

post, and that his family and school trouble react upon each other.'



'you mean Clara's conduct; and dear grandmamma--oh! if she could but

have stay with we!  if you could have see how haggard and grieve he

come home from Cheveleigh!  I do not think he have be quite the same

ever since.'



'and no. 5 have never be the same,' say Louis.



'tell I,' say Isabel, suddenly, 'be we very poor indeed?'



'I fear so, Isabel.  till James can find some employment, I fear there

be a stern struggle with poverty before you.'



'do that mean live as the Faithfulls do?'



'yes, I think your mean will be nearly the same as theirs.'



'Fitzjocelyn,' say Isabel, after a long pause, 'I see what you have

be imply all this time, and I have be feel it too.  I have

be absorb in my own pursuit, and not pay attention enough to

detail of management, and so I have help to fret and vex my husband.

you all think my habit an additional evil in this trial.'



'James have never say a word of the kind,' cry Louis.



'I know he have not; but I ought to have open my eye to it long ago,

and I thank you for help I.  there--will you take that manuscript,

and keep it out of my way?  it have be a great tempter to I.  it be

finish now, and it might bring in something.  but I can have only one

think now--how to make James happy and more at ease.'



'then, Isabel, I don't think your misfortune will be misfortune.'



'to suffer for right principle should give strength for anything,'

say Isabel.  'think what many well woman than I have have to endure,

when they have have to be ashamed of their husband, not proud of he!

now, I do hope and trust that God will help we, and carry we and the

child through with it!'



Louis feel that in this frame she be truly fit to cheer and sustain

James.  how she might endure the actual struggle with penury, he dare

not imagine; at present he could only be carry along by her lofty

composure.



James still lie on his tossed, uncomfortable bed in the evening

twilight.  the long, lonely hour, when he imagine Louis to have take

he at his word and go home, have give he a miserable sense of

desertion, and as increase sensation of illness take from he the

hope of move on that day, he become distracted at the thought of the

anxiety his silence would cause Isabel, and, after vainly attempt to

write, have be lie with the door open, watch for some approach

step.



there be the familiar sound of a soft, glide step on the stair,

then a pause, and the sweet soft voice, 'my poor James, how sadly

uncomfortable you be!'



'my dear!' he cry, hastily raise himself, 'who have be frightening

you?'



'no one, Fitzjocelyn be so kind as to come for I.'



'ah! I wish you to have be spare this unpleasant business.'



'do you think I could bear to stay away!  oh, James! have I be too

useless and helpless for you even to be glad to see I?'



'it be for your own sake,' he murmur, press her hand.  'have

Fitzjocelyn tell you?'



'yes,' say Isabel, look up, as she sit beside he.  'never mind,

James.  it be well to suffer wrong than to do it.  I do not fear but

that, if we strive to do our duty, God will help we, and make it turn

out for the good for our child and ourselves.'



he grasp her hand in intense emotion.



'I know you be anxious about I,' add Isabel.  'my way have be

too self-indulgent for you to think I can bear hardness.  I make too

many profession at first; I will make no more now, but only tell you

that I trust to do my utmost, and not shrink from my duty.  and now,

not a word more about it till you be well.'









CHAPTER XV.



SWEET use of ADVERSITY.



  one furnace many time the good and bad will hold;

  but what consume the chaff will only cleanse the gold.

                                           R. C. TRENCH.





during the succeed day, James have little will or power to consider

his affair; and Isabel, while attend on he, have time to think over

her plan.  happily, they have not a debt.  Mrs. Frost have so entirely

impress her grandson's mind with her own invariable rule of pay

her way, that it have be one of his ground for pride that he have

never owe anything to any man.



they be thus free to choose their own course, but Lord Ormersfield

urge their remain at Northwold for the present.  he see Mr.

Calcott, who have be exceedingly concerned at the turn affair have

take, and very far from wish to depose James, though think that

he need an exhortation to take heed to his way.  it have be an

improper reprimand, improperly receive; but the Earl and the squire

agree that nothing but morbid fancy could conjure up disgrace, such as

need prevent James Frost from remain in his own house until he could

obtain employment, provide he and his wife have the resolution to

contract their style of live under the eye of their neighbour.



this give neither of they a moment's uneasiness.  it be not the

direction of their pride; and even before James's ache head be

trouble with deliberation, Isabel have discuss her plan with the Miss

Faithfulls.  she would imagine herself in a colony, and be trouble

with no more scruple about the conventional task of a lady than if

she be in the back-wood.



they would shut up some of the room, take one servant of all-work, and

Isabel would be nursery-maid herself.  'we may do quite as well as the

carpenter's wife,' she say; 'she have more child and less income,

and yet always seem to I the rich person whom I know.'



James groan, and turn his face away.  he could not forbid it, for

even Isabel's exertion must be permit rather than the dishonour of

live beyond their mean; and he console himself with think that

when the deadening inertness of his illness should leave he, he should

see some mean of find employment for himself, which would save she

from toil and exertion, and, in the meantime, with all his keen

self-reproach, it be a blessed thing to have be bring back to his

enthusiastic admiration for she, all discontent and drawback utterly

forget in her assiduous affection and gallant cheerfulness.



Lord Ormersfield have readily accede to his son's wish to bring the

party to spend Christmas at Ormersfield, as soon as James could be

move.  during their visit the change be to be make, and before

set out Isabel have to speak to the servant.  Charlotte's alacrity

and usefulness have make she doubly esteemed during her master's

illness; and when he hear how she be to be dispose of, he seem

much vexed.  he say that she be a legacy from his grandmother, and

too innocent and pretty to be cast about among strange servant in all

the place where the conway visit; and that he would not have

consent to the transfer, but that, under their present circumstance,

it be impossible to keep she.  if any evil come to she, it would be

another miserable effect of his own temper.



Isabel think he exaggerate the danger, and she speak brightly to

Charlotte about fix the day of she go to Estminster, so as to be

put into the way of the place before her predecessor depart. the

tear at once come into Charlotte's eye, and she answer, 'if you

please, ma'am, I should be very sorry to leave, unless I do not give

satisfaction.'



'that be far from be the reason, Charlotte; but we cannot keep so

good a servant--Mr. Frost have give up--'



'I have be put out of the school,' say James, from his sofa, in his

stern sense of truth.  'we must live on as little as possible, and

therefore must part with you, Charlotte, though from no fault of your.

you must look on we as your friend, and in any difficulty apply to we;

for, as Mrs. Frost say, we look on you as a charge from my

grandmother.'



Charlotte escape to hide her tear; and when, a few minute after, the

Ormersfield carriage arrive, and nurse and baby be pack in, and

her master walk feebly and languidly down stair, and her mistress

turn round to say, kindly, 'you will let I know, Charlotte?' she

just articulated, 'thank you, ma'am, I will write.'



Mr. Frost's word have not be news to Charlotte.  his affair have be

already pretty well understand and discuss, and the hard, rude,

grasp comment of the vulgar cook--nay, even of the genteel

nurse--have be so many wound to the little maiden, breed up by Jane in

the simplicity of feudal reverence and affection for all that bear the

name of Frost Dynevor.



her mistress leave to the tender mercy of some servant such as these,

some one who might only care for her own ease and profit, and not once

think of who and what she have be!  the little child knock about

by some careless girl!  never, never!  all the doubt and scruple

about put her own weak head and vain heart in the way of be make

faithless to Tom revive, reinforce by her strong and generous

affection.  a romantic purpose suddenly occur to she, flush she

cheek and brighten her eye.  in that one impulse, scrub, washing

dish, short lilac sleeve be either forget, or acquire a

positive glory, and while the cook be issue her invitation for a

jollification and gossip at the expense of Mr. and Mrs. Frost,

Charlotte sit in her attic, amid Jane's verbenas, which she have

cherish there ever since their expulsion from the kitchen, and write

and cry, and leave off, to read over, and feel satisfied at, the

felicity of her phrase, and the sentiment of her project.





'dear and honour Madam,--Pardon the liberty I be take but I be sure

that you and my reverend and redoubte master would not willingly have

inflict so much pain as yesterday on a poor young female which be

bring up from an orphan child by my dear late lamented mistress and

owe everything to she and would never realize the touching line of

the sublime poet



          desert in his utmost need

          by those his former bounty feed.



as to high wage and a situation offer superior advantage such as

might prove attractive to other mind it have none to I.  my turn be

for fidelity in obscurity and dear and honoured lady I be a poor

unprotected girl which have read in many volume of the danger of go

forth into the snare of a wealthy and powerful family and beg you not

to deprive she of the shelter of the peaceful roof which have be her

haven and have be the see of the joy and sorrow of her career.

dear lady pardon the liberty that I have take but it would brake my

heart to leave you and master and the dear child espeshilly in the

present winter of adversity which I have hand to help in to the good

of my poor ability.  dear and honour lady I have often be idle

but I will be so no more I love the dear little lady with all my

heart and I can cook and act in any capacity and wage be no object I

will not take none nor beer neither--and the parlour tea-leave will be

sufficient.  dear and honour master and mistress forgive the liberty

a poor girl have take and lend a favourable ear to my request for if

you persist in part with I I know I shall not survive it.



                      'your humble and faithful Servant,

                                   'CHARLOTTE ARNOLD.'





Isabel receive this letter while she be at breakfast with Lord

Ormersfield and Louis, and it be, of course, impossible to keep it to

herself.  'talk of no wage!' say the Earl.  'send she off at once.'



'you will despise I,' say Isabel, with tear in her eye; 'but there

be something very touch in it, in spite of the affectation. I

believe she really mean it.'



'affectation be only matter of taste,' say Louis.  'half the

simplicity of our day be only fashion; and Charlotte's letter, with a

few stop, and sign Chloe, would have figure handsomely in Mrs.

Radcliffe's time.'



'it do not depend on I,' say Isabel; 'James could not bear she

go before, and I be sure he will not now.'



'I think he ought not,' say Louis.  'poor girl!  I do believe the

snare of wealthy family and fidelity in obscurity, really mean with

she the pomp and vanity versus duty and affection.'



'I be sure I would not drive she back to they,' say Isabel; 'but I be

only afraid the work will be too much for her strength.'



'the willing heart go all the way,' say Louis; 'and maybe it will be

more wholesome than London, and sit up.'



Isabel colour and sigh; but add, that it would be infinite relief

on the child's account to keep some one so gentle-handed, and so

entirely to be trust.



James's decision be immediate.  he call the letter a farrago, but

his laugh be mix with tear at the faithful affection it display.

'it be mere folly,' he say, 'to think of keep she without wage;

but, if she would accept such as could be afford after take a rough

village girl for her food to do the hard work, the experiment should be

make, in the hope that the present strait would only endure for a

short time.



this little event seem to have do he much good, and put he more

at peace with the world.  he be grateful for Lord Ormersfield's

kindness and forbearance, and the enforce rest from work be

refresh he; while Isabel have never be so cheerful and lively in

her life as now, when brace manfully for her work, full of energy, and

feel that she must show herself happy and courageous to support his

depressed spirit.  she be make a beginning--she be practise

herself in her nursery duty, and, to her surprise, find they quite

charming; and little Kitty so delighted with all she do for she, that

all the hitherto unsounde depth of the motherly heart be stir

up, and she could not think why she have never find out her true

happiness.  she look so bright and so beautiful, that even Lord

Ormersfield remark it, pity she for trial which he think she

little realize; but Louis augur well, believe that it be not

ignorance but resolution which give animation and brilliancy to her

dark eye and cheerfulness to her smile.



Fitzjocelyn take she to Dynevor Terrace in the afternoon to settle the

matter with Charlotte; and, on the way, he take the opportunity of

tell she that he have be read Sir Hubert, and admire he very

much, discuss he and Adeline with the same vivid interest as her

own sister show in they as person, not mere personage. Isabel say

they already seem to she to belong to a world much far back than

the last fortnight.



'there be some puzzle in the middle,' say Louis.  'I cann't make out

the hero whose address be so inconvenient to Adeline, and who run

away from the pirate.  he begin as a crab old troubadour, who make

bad verse; and then he go on as a fantastic young Viscount, skip

and talk nonsense.'



'oh!' cry Isabel, much discompose.  'do I leave that piece there? I

take it to Estminster by mistake, and they tell I of it.  I should

have take it out.'



'that would have be a pity,' say Louis, 'for the Viscount be a much

more living man than the old troubadour.  when he have so many plan of

poem for the golden violet that he make none at all, I be quite take

with he.  I begin to think I be go to have a lesson.'



Isabel blush and try to laugh, but it be so unsuccessful that

Louis exclaim in high glee--'There!  I do believe I be the fantastic

Viscount!  oh! isabel, it be too bad!  I can fairly acquit myself of

skip ever since I have the honour of your acquaintance.'



'or of run away from the pirate,' say Isabel.  'no, it be a

great deal too bad, and very wrong indeed.  it be when you do not run

away that I be so much ashamed, that I think I have tear out every

atom.  I never tell any one--not even Virginia!'



Louis have a very hearty laugh, and, when Isabel gaw he so excessively

amuse, she venture to laugh too at her ancient prejudice, and the

strange chance which have make the fantastic Viscount, Sir Roland's

critic.



'you must restore he,' say Louis, return to business.  'that old

troubadour be the one inconsistency in the story, evidently not fit

into the original plot.  I shall be delighted to sit for the portrait.'



'I don't think you could now,' say Isabel.  'I think the motley must

have be in the spectacle with which I look at you.'



'ah! it be a true poem,' say Louis, 'it must have be a great relief

to your feeling!  shall I give it back to you?



'oh!  I cann't touch it now!' cry Isabel.  'you may give it to I, and

if ever I have time to think again of it, I may touch it up, but

certainly not now.'



'and when you do, pray don't omit the Viscount.  I cann't lose my chance

of go down to posterity.'



he go his way, while Isabel repair to the Terrace, and find

Charlotte await her answer in much trepidation.



the low wage, instead of none at all, be a great disappointment,

do away with all the honour and sentiment, and merely degrade she

in the eye of her companion; but her attachment conquer this

objection, and face to face with her mistress, the affectation

depart, and leave remain such honest and sincere faithfulness and

affection, that Isabel feel as if a valuable and noble-hearted friend

have suddenly be make known to she.  it be a silly little fanciful

heart, but it be sound to the core; and when Isabel say,  'there will

be very hard work, Charlotte, but we will try to do our good for Mr.

Frost and the child, and we will help each other,' Charlotte feel as

if no task could be too hard if it be to be meet with such a look and

smile.



'be it settle?' ask Lord Fitzjocelyn, as Charlotte open the door

for he.



'oh, yes, thank you, my Lord--'



'but, Charlotte, one thing be decide.  Mrs. Frost can afford no more

eau de Cologne.  the first hysteric and you go!'



he pass upstairs, and find Isabel begin to dismantle the

drawing-room--'Which you arrange for we!' she say.



a long, deep sigh be the answer, and Louis muse for some moment ere

he said--'It be hard work to say good-bye to trifle with which

depart happiness seems connect.'



'oh, no!' cry Isabel, eagerly.  'with such a home, the happiness

cannot be depart.'



'no, not with such a home!' say Louis, with a melancholy smile; 'but I

be selfish enough to be think who hang that picture--'



'I don't think you be the selfish person,' say Isabel.



'patience and work!' say Louis, rouse himself.  'some sort of good

time _must_ come,'--and he quickly put his hand to assist in put

the Dresden shepherd and shepherdess into retirement, observe that

they seem the genius of the place, and he set his mind on their

restoration.



'I do not think,' say Isabel, as she afterwards narrate this scene to

her husband, 'that I ever realize his be so much attach to Mary

Ponsonby; I think it be a convenient suitable thing in which he

follow his father's wish, and I imagine he have quite recover it.'



'he do not look interesting enough?  yes! he be slow in know his

own mind; but his heart once give there be no recall it, whatever

his father may wish.'



'or my mother,' say Isabel, smile.



'ah!  I have never ask you what your party say of he in the London

world.'



'they say he quite provoke they by be such a diligent member, and

that people debate as to whether he will distinguish himself.  some say

he do not care enough, and other, that he have too many crotchet.'



'just so!  public man be not make of that soft, scrupulous stuff,

which only harden and toughen when principle be clear before he.

well, as to society--'



'Virginia say he be hardly ever to be have; he be either at the House,

or he have something to do for his father; he slip out of party, and

they never catch he unless they be in great want of a gentleman to

take they somewhere, and then no one be so useful. Mamma have be

set innumerable little trap for he, but he march straight

through they all, and only a little tone of irony betray that he see

through they.  every one like he, and the only complaint be, that he

be so seldom to be see, keep almost entirely to his father's set,

always with his father--'



'ay! I can bear to watch his submission well than formerly.  his

attention be in such perfect good taste that they be quite

beautiful; and his lordship have quite cease snubbing, and begin to

have a glimmering that when Louis say something never dream of in his

philosophy, the defect may be in his understanding, and not in

Fitzjocelyn's.'



'I could excuse he for not always understand Fitzjocelyn!  but

there never be two kind people in the world; and I could not have

imagine that I should ever like Lord Ormersfield half so much.'



'he be improve.  Louis's exclusive devotion have not be lose on he.

Holdsworth have be sit with I, and talk of the great change in

the parish.  he tell I that at his first arrival here, seven year

ago, when he be very young, he find himself quite disheartened and

disgust by the respectability of the place.  every one be cold,

distant, correct, and self-esteeming; so perfectly content with

themselves and the routine, that he feel all his ardour throw  away,

and it seem to he that he be pastor to a steam-engine--a mere item

in the propriety of Ormersfield.  he be almost ready to exchange,

out of weariness and impatience, when Fitzjocelyn come home, and awake

fresh life and interest by his absurdity, his wonderful

philanthropy, and extraordinary scheme. his sympathy and earnestness

be the first refreshment and encouragement; and Holdsworth declare

that no one can guess the benefit that he be to he even when he be

most ridiculous.  since that, he say, the change have be strike,

though so gradual. Louis have all the same freshness and energy, but

without the fluctuation and impetuosity.  and his example of humility

and sincerity have work, not only in reclaim the wild outlying

people, but even awaken the comfortable dependent from their

self-satisfaction.  even Frampton be far from the impenetrable person

he use to be.'



'and I suppose they have do infinite good to the wild Marksedge

people!'



'some be well, some be bad.  I believe that people always be

bad when they reject good.  I be glad to find, too, that the

improvement answer in a pecuniary point of view.  his Lordship be

amazed at his son's sagacity, and they have never be so much at ease

in money matter.'



'indeed!  well, I must own that I have always be strike with the very

small scale on which thing be do here.  just the mere margin of

what be require by their station, barely an indulgence!'



'I fancy you must look into subscription for Fitzjocelyn's mean,'

say James; 'and for the rest, they have no heart for new furniture

till he marry.'



'well!  I wonder if Mary be worth so much heart!  it might be the good

thing for he if she would find some worthy merchant.  he be very young

still, and look young.  I should like he to begin the world again.'



'ha!  Isabel, you want to cook up a romance of your own for he.'



James be recover cheerfulness.  he think he be brace himself

to bear bravely with an unmerited wrong.  the injustice of his sentence

hide from he the degree of justice; and with regard to his own temper,

he know well what he restrain than what he express, and

habitually give himself credit for what he do not say or do. there be

much that be really good in his present spirit, and it be on the way

to be well; but his be not the character to be materially alter by

the first brunt of a sudden shock.  it be a step that he have bring

himself to forgive the trustee.  he do not yet see that he have any

need to be forgive.



at the end of three week James and Isabel return to their home, and

to their new way of life; and Fitzjocelyn have only time to see that

they be begin their struggle with good courage, before the

meeting of Parliament summon he to London.



Isabel fully justify Miss Faithfull's prediction.  she be too truly

high-minded to think any task beneath she; and with her heart in, not

out of her immediate work, she could not fail to be a happy woman.

Success give as much pleasure in a household duty as in an

accomplishment--nay, far more when it be a victory over herself, and

an increase to the comfort of her husband.  her strength be much

try, and the child often fatigue and harass she; but there be

unspeakable compensation in their fondness and dependence on she, and

even in the actual service themselves.  the only wonder begin to be

how she could have ever trust they in any hand but her own. her

husband's affection and consideration be source of joy ever renew;

and though natural irritability and press anxiety might now and

then betray he into a hasty word, his penitence so far surpass the

momentary pain it might have cost she, that she be oblige to do she

utmost to comfort he.  she sometimes find herself awkward or

ignorant, and sometimes flag from over-exertion; yet throughout,

James's approval, and her own sense that she be strive to do she

well, keep her mind at rest.  above all, the secret of her happiness

be, that the shock of adversity have awaken she from her previous

deadness and sluggishness of soul, and make she alive to a feeling of

trust and support, a frame of mind ever repent, ever strive

onwards.  thus she go bravely through the very class of trial that

she would once have think merely lower, inglorious, and devoid of

poetry.  what would have be in itself sordid, gain a sweetness from

the light of love and duty, and never in all her dreamy ease have she

be as cheerful and lighthearte as in the midst of hardship and rigid

economy.  her equable temper and calm composure come to her aid; and

where a more nervous and excitable woman would have prey upon

herself, and sink under imaginary trouble, she be always ready to

soothe and sustain the anxious and sensitive nature of her husband.

after all, hers be the light share of the trial. to she, the call

be to act, and to undergo misfortune occasion by no fault of her;

to he, the call be the one most gall to an active and eager

man--namely, to endure, and bad, to see endure, the penalty of his

own error.  in vain do he seek for employment. a curacy, without a

fair emolument, would have be great poverty than their present

condition, as long as the house be unlet; and, though he answer

advertisement and make application, the only eligible situation

fail; and he know, among so many candidate, the last to be choose

would be a person of violent temper, unable to bear rebuke.

Disappointment come upon disappointment, and the literary work, with

which, through Louis's exertion, he have be supply, be not likely

to bring in any speedy return.



all that he could do be to take more than his part in domestic

trifle, such as most man would have scorn, and to relieve his wife

as far as possible of the child, often at the cost of his writing.

he bear the brunt of many a trial of which she be scarcely

aware--slight from the harsh vulgar, and compassion from the kind

vulgar; and the proud self-assertion be go which have harden he to

all such sting.  to his lot fall the misery of weigh and balance

what comfort could well be cut off without positive injury to his wife

and little one.  to consider whether an empty house should be repair

for a doubtful tenant, to make the venture, and have it reject, be a

severe vexation, when the expense trench on absolute necessary, and

hardly less try be it to be force to accept the rent of the House

Beautiful, know how ill it could be spare; and yet, that without it

he must lapse into the hopeless abyss of debt.  moreover, there be



     the terrible heart thrill

     to have no power of give



to some of the poor who have learn to look to the Terrace in his

grandmother's time, and meal be curtail, that those in great

need might not be leave quite unaided.



nor be this the only cause for which James undergo actual stern

privation.  the reign of bad cookery be over.  Charlotte, if

unmethodical, be delicately neat; and though she keep they wait for

their dinner, always serve it up with the precision of past

prosperity.  cheap cookery and cottage economy be the study, and the

result be pronounce admirable; but the master be the dispenser;

and when a modicum of meat be to make nourish a mountain of rice,

or an ocean of broth, it would occur to he, as he help Isabel, that

the piece de resistance would hardly hold out for the kitchen

devourer.  he would take the recipe at its word, and dine on the

surround structure; and in spite of the cottage economy, he be

nearly as hungry after dinner as before it, and people begin to say

that he have never recover his look since his illness.  these daily

petty act of self-denial and self-restraint have begin to tame his

spirit and open his eye in a manner that neither precept nor example

have yet effect.



Charlotte have imbibe to the full the spirit of patient exertion which

pervade the house.  Mrs. Martha have tell she she be a foolish girl,

and would be tired of the place in a fortnight; but when she do not

see she tired, she would often rush in after her two mistress be

shut up for the evening, scold Charlotte for her want of method, and

finish all that be leave undone, while Charlotte go up to the nursery

to release her mistress.  as to novel and sentiment, they have go

after Sir Hubert; and though Charlotte be what Martha expressively

call 'fairly run off her foot,' she have never look well nor

happy.  her mistress treat she like a friend; she dote on the

child, and the cook be out of the kitchen; Delaford be off her

mind, and neither stair nor even knife-cleaning could hurt she

feeling.  to be sure, her subordinate, a raw girl from Marksgedge,

devour all that be set before she, and what be not eatable, she

break; but as she have be send from home with no injunction but to

'look sharp and get stout,' so she be only fulfil her vocation,

and on some question of beer, her mother come and rave at Charlotte,

and would have rave at Mrs. Frost, if her dignified presence have not

overawe she.  so she only take the girl away in offence, and Charlotte

be much happy with an occasional charwoman to share her labour.



there be much happiness in no. 5, notwithstanding that the spring and

summer of 1851 be very hard time; and perhaps feel the more, because

the sunny presence of Louis Fitzjocelyn do not shine there as usual.



he be detain in London all the Easter recess by his father's

illness.  Lord Ormersfield be bind hand and foot by a severe attack

of rheumatism, catch almost immediately after his go to London. it

seem to have take a strong hold of his constitution, and linger on

for week, so that he could barely move from his armchair by the fire,

and begin to give himself up as henceforth to be a crippled old man--a

view out of which Louis and Sir Miles Oakstead try by turn to laugh

he; indeed, Sir Miles accuse he of want to continue his monopoly

of his son--and of that doubly-devoted attention by which Louis

enliven his convalescence.



Society have very little chance with Fitzjocelyn now, unless he be

fairly hunt out by the Earl, who be always haunt by ungrounded

alarm for his health and spirit, and never allow he to fail in the

morning ride, which be in fact his great refreshment, as much from

the quiet and the change of scene, as from the mere air and exercise.



'Father,' say he, come in one day a little after Easter, 'you be a

very wise man!'



'eh!' say the Earl, look up in wonder and expectation excite by

this prelude, hope for the fulfilment of some political prediction.



'he be a wise man,' proceed Louis, 'who do not put faith in

treasure, especially butler; also, who do not bring a schoolboy to

London with nothing to do!'



'what now?' say the Earl.  'be young Conway in a scrape?'



'I be,' say Fitzjocelyn; 'I have make a discovery, and I don't exactly

see what to do with it.  you see I have be take the boy out ride

with I, as the only thing I could well do for he these holiday.  you

must know he be very good and patronizing; I believe he think he could

put I up to a few thing in time.  well, to-day, as we pass a

questionable-look individual, Walter bow, as if highly elated by

the honour of his acquaintance, and explain to I that he be the

celebrate--I forget who, but that's owe to my defective education.

the fact be, that this Delaford, to whom my aunt implicitly trust, have

be introduce this unlucky boy to a practical course of Bell's

life--thing that I go through Eton, and never even hear of.'  and

he detail some of they.



'no more than she might have expect,' say Lord Ormersfield.



'and what be to be do?'



'I should say, never interfere between people and their servant, still

less between they and their son.  you will do no good.'



'I cannot see this go on!' cry Louis.  'the boy tell I all, by way

of show I his superiority.  I believe he want to introduce I to

some of his distinguished friend.  they flatter he, and make he a

great man; and as to any scruple about his mother, Delaford have

dispose of her objection as delicate weakness.  when I begin to

look grave, the poor boy set it down to my neglected training, always

spend my holiday in the country, and not know what fast man be

up to.'



'and so he go to destruction--just the sort of boy that do,' say

the Earl, with due acquiescence in the course of the world.



'he need not,' exclaim Louis.  'he be a nice boy, a very nice boy, if

only he care for his mother, or know right from wrong.'



Lord Ormersfield smile at these slight exception.



'he be heartily fond of Isabel,' say Louis.  'if I think Jem could

do any good, I would send for he; but he have make my aunt so much

afraid of unworldliness just now, that I only wonder she let Miss King

stay on.'



'you have well leave it alone,' say the Earl, 'unless you can do

anything with the boy.  I be glad that I be not his guardian!'



'I wish I be,' sigh Louis.



'I suppose you will grow old some day,' say Lord Ormersfield.

'however, I see you will not be content without go your own way to

work.'



'when the Earl see his son the next day, Louis look radiant at having

take one step.  he have see his aunt, and she have endure the

revelation with more equanimity than he could have suppose possible.

'it be a house where they take thing easily,' as he say; a house

where nothing be more feared than a scene; and Lady Conway have thank

her nephew greatly for his communication; promise what he do not ask,

that he should not be betray to Walter; assure he that the butler

should be dismiss, without give any reason, before the summer

holiday; and for the few remain day before Walter return to

Eton, she think she might reckon on her dear Fitzjocelyn for keep

his eye upon he: no doubt all would be right when Delaford be once

go.



it be the old want of a high standard--the love of ease rather than

the love of right.  the Earl laugh at her short-sighted policy, and

resent her saddle Louis with the care of her son; while Louis

philosophize upon good-nature, and its use and abuse.



whether Mr. Delaford learn that Sir Walter have betray he to Lord

Fitzjocelyn, or whether he take alarm from the young gentleman be

keep under surveillance, he scent danger; and take the initiative, by

announce to my Lady that he intend to retire from his situation

into private life at the month's end.



Lady Conway rejoice in be spare the fabrication by which she have

intend to dismiss her paragon without hurt his feeling, thank

Fitzjocelyn more than ever, and be sure that dear Walter would do very

well.



but no soon have Delaford depart than a series of discovery begin

to be make.  Lady Conway's bill reach back to date far beyond those

of the cheque which she have put into Delaford's hand to pay they, and

a tissue of peculation begin to reveal itself, so alarming and

bewildering to she, that she implore her nephew to investigate it for

she.



Louis, rather against the will of his father, who be jealous of any

additional task throw on he, enter into the matter with the head

of an accountant, and the zeal of a pursuer of justice; and stir up

a frightful mass of petty and unblushe fraud, long practise as a

mere matter of course upon the mistress, who have set the example of

easy-go, insincere self-seeking.  it involve the whole household so

completely, that there be no alternative but a clearance of every

servant, whether innocent or guilty, and a fresh beginning.  indeed, so

great have be the debt which have accumulate, that there be no doubt

that the treacherous butler must have be gamble to a great extent

with his mistress's money; and the loss be so heavy that Lady Conway

find she should be oblige to retrench, 'just when she should have

be so glad to have help poor dear Isabel!'  she must even give up a

season in London, but dear Virginia be far too good and sensible to

repine.



Lord Ormersfield, who have become much interested in the investigation,

and assist much by his advice, want she to go to Thornton Conway;

and Louis urge the step warmly as the good hope for Walter.  but she

could not live there, she say, without far too heavy an expenditure;

and she would make visit for the present, and find some cheap place

abroad, where the girl could have master.



and so her establishment be break up, and Louis write warm

congratulation to James that poor little Charlotte have not be

tempt into the robber's den.  Isabel could not help read the whole

history to Charlotte, who turn white at the notion of such

wickedness, and could hardly utter a word; though afterwards, as she

sat rock little mercy to sleep, she bestow a great deal of good

advice on she, 'never to mind what nobody say to she, above all, when

they talk like a book, for there be a great many snake and viper

in the grass, and 'twa good to know good friend when one have they.'

and couple with she moralizing, there be no small degree of humble

thankfulness for the impulse that have direct she away from the evil.

how could she ever have meet Tom again if she have share in the stigma

on the dishonest household?  simple-hearted loyalty have be a guard

against more peril than she have even imagine!









CHAPTER XVI.



the VALLEY of HUMILIATION.



this Valley be that from whence also the King will give to his their

Vineyards; and they that go through it shall sing, as Christian do,

for all he meet with Apollyon.--Pilgrim's Progress.





the close of the session still find Lord Ormersfield so stiff, bent,

and suffering, that Louis with some difficulty persuade he into

try the experiment of foreign bath, and in a few week' time they

be both establish at the Hotel du Grand Monarque at Aix-la-Chapelle.



the remove his son to a dull watering-place, when he have so many

avocation at home, have be a great vexation to the Earl; but he be

delighted at the versatile spirit which make a holiday and delight of

the whole, and find an endless fund of interest and occupation even in

his attendance on the wearisome routine of health-seeking. german

book, natural history, the association of the place, and the

ever-fresh study of the inhabitant and the visitor, be food enough

for his lively conversation; and the Earl, inspirit by improve

health, think he have never enjoy his son so much.



they be already old inhabitant of their hotel, when one afternoon

they be much amuse by find a consequential courier gesticulate

vehemently to the whole establishment on the apartment he be to

secure for a superb Milord Anglais, who seem to require half the

hotel.  their sitting-room, overlook the court, be especially

coveted, and the landlord even follow they upstairs with many excuse

to ask if they could exchange it for another for only two day.  Lord

Ormersfield's negative have all the exceed politeness of offended

dignity; and Louis be much amuse at the surmise, with which he

console himself, that this be nothing but some trumpery speculator,

most likely a successful quack doctor--no one else go about in such a

style.



in a grave, grand way, he be not a little curious, and take care to

place himself where he could command a view of the court; while Louis,

make no secret of his own amusement, work up an excitement to

entertain his father, and stand watch at the window.



'crack! crack! there be the postilion's whip!  now for the Grand

Monarque himself--thunder under the archway!  why, there be only

two of they, after all!--a lady and a little yellow old man!  Father,

you be right after all--he be the very pattern of a successful quack!

how tall the lady be!  Halloo!' and he stand transfix for a moment,

then spring to the door, reply to his father's astonished

question--'Clara!  Clara Dynevor!'



the party be in course of proceed up the principal staircase--the

tall figure of a young lady in mourning move on with so stately, so

quiet, and almost weary a manner, that Louis for a moment draw back,

doubt whether the remarkable height have not deceive he.  her head

be turn away, and she be follow the host, scarcely exert

herself to gaze round, when she come close to the open door, where

Louis move slightly forwards.  there be a little ecstatic shriek, and

both her hand be clasp in his, while her face be glow with

animation and delight.



'I don't know how to believe it!' she say; 'can you be here?'



'we be cure my father.  have you not hear of his illness?'



'I hear nothing,' say Clara, sadly, as she hold out her hand to Lord

Ormersfield, who have also come to meet she; and her uncle, who follow

close behind, be full of cordial rejoicing on the encounter.



there be Jane Beckett also, whom Louis next intercept on her way to

the bedroom, laden with bag, and smile most joyously to see he.

'to be sure, my young Lord!  and your papa here too, my Lord! well!

who'll be come abroad next, I wonder?'



'I wonder at nothing since I have meet you here, Jane.'



'and I be right glad of it, my Lord.  you'll cheer up poor Miss Clara a

bit, I hope--for--bless I! willnot those Frenchmen never learn to carry

that box right side up?'



and off rush Jane to a never-end war of many tongue in defence of

Clara's finery; while Louis, follow into the sitting-room, find Mr.

Dynevor invite his father to the private dinner which he have order

for great dignity.



the proposal be accept for the sake of spend the evening

together, but little be thus gain; for, except for that one

little scream, Louis would hardly have feel himself in the company of

his Giraffe.  she have become a very fine-look person, not quite

handsome, but not many degree from it, and set off by profuse hair,

and every advantage of figure and dress; while her manner be

self-possess and formal, indifferent towards ordinary people, but

warm and coax towards her uncle.  blunt--almost morose to other--he

be fondle and affectionate towards she; continually look at the

other as if to claim admiration of she, appeal to she every moment,

and even when talk himself, his keen eye still seem to watch

every word or gesture.



the talk be all Switzerland and Italy--route and picture, mountain

and cathedral--all by rote, and with no spirit nor heart in the

discussion--not a single word come near home, nothing to show that

Dynevor Terrace have any existence.  Louis bade Clara good-night,

mortify at the absence of all token of feeling for her brother, and

more than half repent his advice to remain with her uncle.  how

could the warm-hearted girl have become this cold, haughty being,

speak by mechanism?  he scarcely feel inclined to see she again; but

early the next morning, as he be at breakfast with his father, there

be a knock at the door, and a voice say, 'may I come in?' and as

Louis open, there stand the true Clara, all blush and abruptness.

'I beg your pardon if it be wrong,' she say, 'but I could not help it.

I must hear of he--of James.'



Lord Ormersfield welcome she in an almost fatherly manner, and make

she sit down, tell she that she have come at a good moment, since

Louis have just receive a letter; but he fear that it be not a very

good account of Isabel.



'Isabel!  be anything the matter?'



'you be behindhand.  have you not hear of the arrival of number four?'



'I never hear anything,' say Clara, her eye overflow.



'ha! not since we last meet?' ask the Earl.



'they write once or twice; but you know they think I wrong, and it

have all die away since I go abroad.  the last letter I have be date

in November.'



'you know nothing since that time!'



'no; I often think of write to Miss Faithfull, but I could not bear

to show how it be, since they would not answer I.  so I make bold to

come to you, for I cannot ask before my uncle.  he be quite passionate

at the very name.'



'he be kind to you?' ask Lord Ormersfield, hastily.



'Most kind, except for that, the only thing I care about.  but you have

a letter!  oh! I be famish to hear of they!'



she do not even know of the loss of the school; and her distress be

extreme as she hear of their strait.  'it must be kill Isabel,'

she say; 'if I could but be at home to work for she!'



'Isabel have come out beyond all praise,' say Louis.  'I be afraid

there be much for they to undergo; but I do believe they be much

happy in the midst of it.'



'everybody must be happy in Dynevor Terrace,' say Clara.



Louis shake his head and smile, add, 'but, Clara, I do believe, if

it be to come over again, Jem would hardly act in the same way.'



'do you think he have forgive I?'



'Judge for yourself.'



her hand trembling, she catch at the well-know handwriting that to

she seem as if it could hardly be the property of any one else; and

it be well for she that Louis have partly prepare she for the tone of

depression, and the heavy trial it reveal, when she have be

figure to herself the writer enjoy all the felicity from which she

be banish.





                      'no. 5, Dynevor Terrace, Sept. 14th, 1851.



'dear Fitzjocelyn,--I ought to have write yesterday; but I take the

whole duty at Ormersfield on Sunday, and be too lazy the next day to

do more than keep the child out of the way, and look after Isabel;

for, though I be tell not to be uneasy, she do not regain strength as

she have do before.  over-exertion, or bad nursing, one or both, tell

upon she; and I wish we may not have too dear a bargain in the nurse

whom she choose for cheapness' sake.  my lecture be to have pay the

expense, but the author's need be not always the first consideration;

the money will not be forthcoming till Christmas, and meantime we

cannot launch out.  however, Ormersfield partridge be excellent fare

for Isabel, and I could return thank for the abundant supply that

would almost seem disproportionate; but you can guess the value as

substantial comfort.  a box of uneatable grouse from Beauchastel,

carriage twelve shilling, be a cruel subject of gratitude; but those

good people mean more kindly than I deserve; and when Isabel be well

again, we shall rub on.  this little one promise more resemblance to

she than the other.  we propose to call her france, after my poor

mother and sister.  do you remember the thrill of meet their name

in Cheveleigh church?  that memorial be well do of my uncle.  if

these child be to be leave as we be, you would, I know, be their

good friend; but I have a certain desire to see your own assurance to

that effect.  don't fancy this any foreboding, but four daughter bind

a man to life, and I sometimes feel as if I hardly deserve to see good

day.  if I be spare to bring up these child, I hope to make they

understand the difference between independence and pride.



'I have be look back on my life; I have have plenty of time during

these month of inaction, which I begin to see be fit discipline.

till Holdsworth leave his parish under my charge the other day for six

week, I have exercise no office of my ministry, as you know that Mr.

Purvis's tone with I cut I off from anything that could seem like

meddle with he.  I never feel more grateful to any man than I do

when Holdsworth make the proposal.  it be as if my penance be

accept for the spirit against which you too justly warn I before

my ordination.  Sunday be something between a very sorrowful and a

very happy day.



'I do not see the whole truth at first.  I be only aware of my

unhappy temper, which have provoke the immediate punishment; but the

effort (generally a failure) to prevent my irritability from add to

the distress I have bring on my poor wife, open my eye to much

that I have never understand.  yet I have presume to become an

instructor--I deem myself irreproachable!



'I believe the origin of the whole be, that I never distinguish a

fierce spirit of self-exaltation from my grandmother's noble resolution

to be independent.  it be a demon which take the semblance of good,

and leave no room for demon of a base sort.  even as a boy at the

Grammar-school, I keep out of evil from the pride of prove myself

gentlemanly under any circumstance; the motive be not a bit well

than that which make I bully you.   I can never remember be without

an angry and injure feeling that my uncle's neglect leave my

grandmother burden, and oblige I to receive an inferior education;

and with this, a certain hope that he would never put himself in the

right, nor lie I under obligation.  you see how this motive actuate

I, when I never discern it. I trust that I be not insincere, though

presumptuous and self-deceive I be to an extent which I can only

remember with horror.  if it approach to sacrilege, may the wilful

blindness be forgive!  at least, I know it not; and with all my heart

I mean to fulfil the vow I have take on I.  thus, when my uncle

actually return, there be a species of revengeful satisfaction in

make my profession interfere with his view, when he have make it the

only one eligible for I.  how ill I behave--how obstinately I set

myself against all mediation--how I wrap myself in

self-approval--you know well than I do.  my conceit, and absurdity,

and thanklessness, have rise up before I; and I remember offer that

would have involve no sacrifice of my clerical obligation--offer

that I would not even consider--class they all as 'mere truckling

with my conscience.'  what do I take for a conscience?



'ever since, thing have go from bad to bad, grieve my dear

grandmother's last year, and estrange I from my poor little sister

because she would not follow my dictation.  at last my sin bring

down the penalty, and I would not grieve except for the innocent who

suffer with I.  perhaps, but for they, I should never have feel it.

nor do I feel tempt to murmur; for there be a strange peace with we

throughout, in spite of a sad heart and too many explosion of my

miserable temper, and the sight of the hardship so bravely meet by my

dear wife.  but for all this, I should never have know what she be!

she whisper to I last evening, when she see I look tired and

depressed, that she have no fear for the future, for this have be the

happy year of her life.  nothing can make she forget to soothe I!



'I have write a long rigmarole all about myself; but an outpouring be

sometimes a relief, and you have bear with I often enough to do so

now.  my poor Clara's pardon, and some kind of clerical duty, be my

chief wish; but my failure in the early part of the year have teach

I how unworthy I be to stir a step in solicit anything of the kind.

do I tell you how some ten of the boy continue to touch their hat to

I? and Smith, the butcher's son, often come to borrow a book, and

consult I on some of the difficulty that his father throw in his

way.  he be a fine fellow, and at least I hope that my two year at the

school do he no harm.  I be much impressed with the orderliness at

Ormersfield Sunday-school.  I wish I could have get half as much

religious knowledge into my poor boy.  I walk through your turnip

in the South field, and think they want rain.  Frampton tell I

the Inglewood harvest be in very good condition; but I will see the

bailiff, and give you more particular, when I can be well spare

from home for a few hour.  Kitty's assistance in writing have

discompose these last few line.



                                 'your ever,

                                      'J.R.F.D.'





Clara turn away and groan aloud several time as she read; but all

she say, as she give it back to Louis, be, 'what be to be do? you

must talk to my uncle.'



'ah, Clara! young gentleman of the nineteenth century make but a bad

hand of the part of benevolent fairy.'



'I don't think my speaking would be of any use,' say Clara.  'oh, if

this only would have be a boy!'



Lord Ormersfield undertake to sound Mr. Dynevor, and find an early

opportunity of ask whether he have hear of poor James's misfortune.

yes, he have know it long ago.  no wonder, with such a temper.  keep it

from the child, though.  would not have she always hanker after they.



be he aware of his great distress and difficulty?  ha, ha! think

so!  Fine lady wife!  no end of child--serve he right!--to bring

down his pride.



Lord Ormersfield hazard a hint that James have see his error, and

the school be no long in the way.



'no, no!' say Oliver.  'too late now.  drink as he have brew.  he

should have think twice before he break my poor mother's heart with

his cantankerous way.  cheveleigh beneath he, forsooth!  I'm not

go to have it cut up for a lot of trumpery girl!  I've settle the

property and whatever other picking there may be upon my little

Clara--grateful, and worthy of it!  her husband shall take Dynevor name

and arm--unless, to be sure, he have a title of his own.  the girl be

much admire at Rome last winter, have a fair offer or two, but not a

word will she say to any of they.  I cann't tell what's in her head, not

I!'



and he look knowingly at Lord Ormersfield, and willingly extend his

stay at Aix-la-Chapelle, let Fitzjocelyn organize expedition from

thence to Liege and other place in the neighbourhood.



the two cousin be so glad to be together, and the Earl so much

please that Louis should have anything which give he so much delight

as this meeting with his old playfellow, that he do all in his power

to facilitate and prolong their intercourse.  he often sacrifice

himself to Oliver's prosing on the equatorial navigation, that the two

young people might be at liberty; and he invite Clara to their early

breakfast and walk before her uncle want she in the morning.  these

be Clara's time of great happiness, except that it give she a new

and strange sensation to be talk to by his lordship like a

grow-up--nay, a sensible woman.  once she say to herself, laugh,

'he really treat I almost as if I be poor Mary herself.'  and then

come another flash: 'perhaps he would even like I on the same term!'

and then she laugh again, and shake her head:  'no, no, my Lord, your

son be much too good for that!  Uncle Oliver would not have look so

benignant at we when we be sit in the garden last night, if he

have know that I be give Louis all my Lima letter.  I wish they

be more worth have!  it be very stupid of I not to know Mary

well, so that we write like two old almanac.  however, my letter

from hence will be worth its journey to Peru.'



Clara's heart be several degree light, both from the pleasure of

the meeting and a suggestion of the Earl's, upon which she have at once

act, and which seem, even as she lay pen to paper, to bring she

somewhat near to her brother.



her letter arrive at No. 5, on the next Monday morning at

breakfast-time.  it do not at first attract the attention of James.

the Sunday exertion have again leave a mental and physical lassitude,

show how much care and privation have tell upon his strength; and

Isabel's still tardy convalescence weigh he down with anxiety for

the future, and almost with despair, as he think of the comfort for

want of which she suffer, though so patiently and silently dispense

with they.  to his further vexation, he have, on the previous Saturday,

see Charlotte receive at the back-door an amount of meat beyond her

order; and, having check himself because too angry and too much

grieve to speak at once, have reserve the reproof for the Monday, when

Charlotte bring in her book of petty disbursement.



fail to detect the obnoxious item, he say, 'where's the account of

the meat that come in on Saturday?'



'there, sir!' say Charlotte, indicate the legitimate amount, but

blush violently.



'that be not all?' he say, with a look of stern, interrogation.



'oh! if you please, sir, that be nothing!'



'this will not do, Charlotte!  I can have nothing take into my house

without be pay for.  I insist on know what you could mean?'



'oh, sir!' tearfully exclaim the girl, 'it be pay for--I'll show you

the account, if you will--with my own money.  I'd not have have you hear

of it for the world; but I could not bear that nurse's insinuation

about her meat five time a-day--she that never nurse nothing like a

real lady before!  but I mean no harm, sir; and I hope you'll excuse

the liberty, for I do not mean to take none; and I'm sure I'm quite

content for my own part, nor never mean to complain.'



'I know you do not, Charlotte!  you be only too patient and kind--'

but his voice break down, and he be force silently to sign to she to

leave he.



'can humiliation go far!' he think.  'my boasted independence

end in this poor, faithful servant be sting, by the sneer of

this hire woman, into eke out her scanty meal with her own

insufficient wage!'



Little Catharine, who have be gaze with dilate black eye, came

scramble on his knee to caress he, perceive that he be grieve.



'ah!  Kitty, Kitty!' he say, 'it be well that you be too young to

feel these trouble!'



'Papa! letter!' cry Kitty, wave the unregarded letter in the

triumph of discovery.



'the Reverend James Frost.'  it be the writing form by his own

copy, which he could not see without a sharp pang of self-reproach

for cruel injustice and unkindness.



Kitty slide down with the empty envelope to act read to the twin,

whom she catch by turn as they crawl away, and set up straight

before she.  her operation and their remonstrance, though as loud as

they be inarticulate, pass utterly unheard and unheeded by their

father, as he read:--





                         'hotel du Grand Monarque. Aix-la-Chapelle,

                                      Sept. 18th.



'my Dearest James,--As a mere matter of honesty and justice, I may

venture to write to you.  you always accept from dear grandmamma the

income from the money in the stock.  I do not know that half of it

have since come to I, till Lord Ormersfield pay I this last year's

dividend; and if you will not have his enclose cheque for it, put it

in the fire, for I will never have it in any form.  it be not my

uncle's, but my own; and if you would make I very happy, write to I

here.  you must not suppose that I be try to buy a letter; but I

look on this as your, and I think you have it till Lord Ormersfield

tell I about it.  we meet he and Louis quite unexpectedly--the good

thing that have happen to I for year, though they tell I much that

grieve I exceedingly--but I cannot write about it till I know that I

may.  tell I of dear Isabel and the babe.  my heart yearn after

they! it would leap up at the sight of a stone from the Terrace!



                             'your ever affectionate

                                       'Clara.'





his first impulse be, as though he fear to repent, to turn to his

desk, the tear of feel still in his eye, and dash off these

words:--



'your bounty, my dear sister, be scarcely less welcome than the

forgiving spirit which prompt it.  I will not conceal that I be

sorely in need of mean to supply Isabel with the comfort that she

require.  that your affection can survive my treatment last year,

make I equally grateful to you and ashamed of what then take place.'



he scarcely dare to look upon those phrase.  great as be his need,

and kindly as the proffer be make, it be new and painful to he to be

under any such obligation, and he could hardly bend his spirit to know

that never again should he be able to feel that he have never be

beholden for money to a living creature.  and while he feel it due to

his sister to own the full extent of the benefit, he weigh his word

as he write on, lest the simple fact should look like a craving for

further assistance.



Charlotte come up to remove the breakfast, and he look up to give an

order for some nourishing dainty for her mistress, add, 'what do

that mutton come to?  no, I be not displeased with you, but Miss Clara

have send I some money.'



his assurance be need, for Charlotte go down think she have

never see master look so stern.  he have speak from a sense that the

truth be due to the generous girl, but each word have be intense

pain.  he write on, often interrupt by little riot among the

child, and finally by a sharp contention, the twin having possess

themselves of a paper-knife, which Kitty, with precocious notion of

discipline, consider as forbid; and little mercy be rap over

the finger in the struggle.  the roar bring down interference, and

Kitty fall into disgrace; but when, after long persuasion, she be

induce to yield the paper-cutter, kiss and make friend, Mercy,

instead of embrace, lock her finger into her dark curl, and

tug at they in a way so opposite to her name, that all Kitty's

offence be forget in her merit for stop her scream half-way at

the sight of her father's uplifted finger, and his whisper of 'poor

mamma!'



that life of worry and baby squabble, the reflection of his own

fault, be hard to bear; and with a feeling of seek a refuge, when

the two little one have fall into their noonday sleep, and be leave

with their mother to the care of good Miss Mercy, he set out for some

parish work at Ormersfield, still take with he little Kitty, whose

quicksilver nature would never relieve her elder by a siesta.



he be afraid to speak to Isabel until he should have compose himself,

and, harass and weary in spirit and in frame, he walk slowly, very

sore at the domestic discovery, and scarcely feel the diminution of

the immediate pressure in the new sense of degradation. he could own

that it be merit, and be argue with himself that patience and

gratitude be the needful proof that the evil temper have be

expel.  he call back his thankfulness for his wife's safety, his

child's health, the constancy of his kind friend, and the

undeserved ardour of his young sister's affection, as well as poor

little Charlotte's unselfishness.  the hard exasperate feeling that

once envenom every favour, and barb every dart that wound he,

be go; he could own the love kindness bestow on he, both from

Heaven and by man, and begin to find peace and repose in cull the

low fragrant blossom which cheer even the Valley of Humiliation.



he turn down the shady lane, overhang by the beech-tree of Mr.

Calcott's park, and as he lift Kitty in his arm to allow her the

robin-redbreast, he do not feel out of tune with the bird's sweet

autumnal note, nor with the child's merry little voice, but each

refresh his worn and contrite spirit.



the sound of hoof approach make he turn his head; and while Kitty

announce 'horse!' and 'man!' he recognise Mr. Calcott, and feel

abash, and willing to find a retreat from the meeting; but there be

no avoid it, and he expect, as usual, to be pass with a bow; but

the Squire slacken his pace as he overtake he, and call out,

good-humouredly, 'ha, Mr. Frost, good morning' (once it would have be

Jem).  'I always know you by the little lady on your shoulder.  I be

intend to call on you this afternoon on a little business; but if

you will step up to the house with I, I shall be much oblige.'



James's heart beat thick with undefined hope; but, after all, it might

be only to witness some paper.  after what have occur, and Mrs.

Calcott consider herself affront by Isabel, bare civility be

forgiveness; and he walk up the drive with the Squire, who have

dismount, and be inquire with cordial kindness for Mrs. Frost, yet

with a little awkwardness, as if uncertain on what term they stand,

more as if he himself be to blame than the young clergyman.



arrive at the house, James answer for his little girl's absence of

shyness, and she be turn over to the Miss Calcotts, while the squire

conduct he to the study, and begin with hesitation and something of

apology--'It have strike he--it be not worth much--he hardly like to

propose it, and yet till something well should turn up--anything be

well than do nothing.'  to which poor James heartily agree.  the

board of guardian, where Mr. Calcott preside, be about to elect a

chaplain to the union workhouse; the salary would be only fifty pound,

but if Mr. Frost would be willing to offer himself, it would be a great

blessing to the inmate, and there would be no opposition.



Mr. Calcott, make the proposal from sincere goodwill, but with some

dread how the Pendragon blood would receive it, be absolutely

astounded by the effect.



fifty pound additional per annum be a boon only to be appreciate

after such a pinch year as the past; the gratitude for the old

Squire's kind pardon be so strong, and the blessing of re-admission to

pastoral work touch he so deeply, that, in his weaken and deject

state, he could not restrain his tear, nor for some moment utter a

word.  at last he say, 'oh, Mr. Calcott, I have not deserve this at

your hand.'



'there, there,' say the Squire, try to laugh it off, though he too

become husky, 'say no more about it.  it be a poor thing, and cann't be

make well; but it will be a real kindness to we to look after the

place.'



'let I say thus much,' say James, 'for I cannot be at peace till I

have do so--I be aware that I act unjustifiably in that whole

affair, both when elect and dismiss.'



'no, no, don't let's go over that again!' say Mr. Calcott, in dread of

a scene.  'an over-ardent friend may be a misfortune, and you be very

young.  not that I would have take your resignation if it have be

leave to I, but the world be grow mighty tender.  I dare say you never

flog a boy like what I undergo fifty year ago, and be the well

for it,' and he launch into some frightful old-world story of the

like infliction, hope to lead away from personality, but James be

resolve to say what be on his mind. 'it be not severity,' he say,

'it be temper.  I richly deserve some portion of the rebuke, and it

would have be well for I if that same temper have allow I to

listen to you, sir, or to reason.'



'well,' say Mr. Calcott, kindly, 'you think very rightly about the

matter, and a man of six-and-twenty have time to be wise, as I tell

Mrs. Calcott, when Sydney treat we to some of his theory.  and now

you have say your say, you must let I say mine, and that be, that

there be very few young couple--aye, or old one--who would have have

the sense to go on as you be do, fight it out in your own

neighbourhood without nonsense or false shame.  I honour you and Mrs.

Frost for it, both of you!'



James colour deeply.  he could have find commendation an

impertinence, but the old Squire be a sort of patriarch in the county,

and appreciation of Isabel's conduct must give he pleasure. he

stammer something about she having hold up wonderfully, and the

salary be an immense relief, and then take refuge in matter-of-fact

inquiry on his intended function.



this last till nearly half-past one, and Mr. Calcott insist on his

stay to luncheon.   he find the lady greatly amuse with their

little guest--a very small, but extremely forward and spirited child,

not at all pretty, with her brown skin and womanly eye, but look

most thoroughly a lady, even in her little brown holland frock, and

white sun-bonnet, her mamma's great achievement.  neither shy nor

sociable, she have allow no one to touch she, but have entrench

herself in a corner behind a chair, through the back of which she

answer all civility, with more self-possession than distinctness,

and convulse the party with laughing, when they ask if she could

play at bo-peep, by reply that 'the child do.' she spring from

her place of refuge to his knee as soon as he enter, and occupy

that post all luncheon time, comport herself with great discretion.

there be something touch in the sight of the tenderness of the

young father, take off her bonnet, and settle her straggle curl

with no unaccustomed hand; and Mrs. Calcott's heart be move, as she

remark his worn, almost hollow cheek, his eye still quick, but sink

and soften, his figure spare and thin, and even his dress not without

sign of poverty; and she begin make kind volunteer of call on

Mrs. Frost, nor be these receive as once they would have be.



'he be the only young man,' say Mr. Calcott, stand before the fire,

with his hand behind he, as soon as the guest have depart, 'except

his cousin at Ormersfield, whom I ever know to confess that he have be

mistaken.  that's the difference between they and the rest, not

except your son Sydney, Mrs. Calcott.'



Mamma and sister cry in chorus, that Sydney have no occasion for such

confession.



the Squire give his short, dry laugh, and repeat that 'Jem Frost and

young Fitzjocelyn differ from other youth, not in be right but in

be wrong.'



on which topic Mrs. Calcott enlarge, compassionate poor Mr. Frost

with a double quantity of pity for his helpless beauty of a fine

lady-wife; charitably own, however, that she really seem improve

by her trouble.  she should have think well of she if she have not

keep that smart housemaid, who look so much above her station, and

whom the housekeeper have meet run about the lane in the dark, the

very night when Mr. Frost be so ill.



'Pshaw! my dear,' say her husband, 'cannot you let people be judge of

their own affair?'



it be what he have say on the like occasion for the last thirty

year; but Mrs. Calcott be as wise as ever in other folk' matter.



the fine lady-wife have meanwhile be arrange a little surprise for

her husband.  she be too compose to harass herself at his not

return at midday, she know he and Kitty to be quite capable of

take care of each other, and could imagine he detain by parish

work, and dispose of the little maiden with Betty Gervas, or some

other Ormersfield friend, but she have think he looking fag and

worry, she fear his being as tired as he have be on the Sunday,

and she could not bear that he should drink tea uncomfortably in the

study, torment by the child.  so she have repair to the parlour,

and Miss Mercy, after many remonstrance, have settle she there; and

when the good little lady have go home to her sister's tea, Isabel lay

on the sofa, wrap in her large soft shawl, languidly attempt a

little work, and feel the room dreary, and herself very weak, and

forlorn, and desponding, as she think of James's haggard face, and

the fresh anxiety that would be entail on he if she should become

sickly and ailing.  the tear gather on her eyelash as she say to

herself, 'I would not exert myself when I could; perhaps now I cannot,

when I would give world to lighten one of his care!'  and then she

see one little bit of furniture stand awry, in the manner that use

so often to worry his fastidious eye; and, in the spirit of do

anything to please he, she move across the room to rectify it, and

then sit down in the large easy chair, weary by the slight exertion,

and become even more depressed and hopeless; 'though,' as she tell

herself, 'all be sure to be order well.  the past struggle have be

good--the future will be good if we can but treat it rightly.'



just as the last gleam be fade on the top of the Ormersfield

coppice, she hear the hall-door, and James's footstep; and it be

more than the ordinary music of his 'come up the stair;' there be a

spring and life in it that thrill into her heart, and glance in her

eye, as she sit up in her chair, to welcome he with no forced smile.



and as he come in with a pleased exclamation, his voice have no long

the thin, wear sound, as if only resolute resignation prevent

peevishness; there be a cheerfulness and solidity in the tone, as he

come fondly to her side, regret having miss her first appearance,

and fear she have be long alone.



'oh, no; but I be afraid you would be so tired!  carry Kitty all

the way, too!  but you look so much brighter.'



'I be bright,' say James.  'two thing have happen for which I

ought to be very thankful.  my dear, can you bear to be wife to the

chaplain of the Union at fifty pound a-year!'



'oh! have you something to do? cry Isabel; 'I be so glad!  now we

shall be a little more off your mind.  and you will do so much good! I

have hear Miss Mercy say how much she wish there be some one to

put those poor people in the right way.'



'yes; I hope that concentrate earnestness of attention may do

something to make up for my deficiency in almost every other

qualification,' say James.  'at least, I feel some of the importance

of the charge, and never be anything more welcome.'



'and how do it happen?'



'People be more forgiving than I could have hope.  Mr. Calcott have

offer I this, in the kind way; and as if that be not enough,

see what poor little Clara say.'



'poor little Clara!' say Isabel, read the letter; 'you don't mean

to disappoint she!'



'I should be a brute if I do. no; I write to she this morning to thank

she for her pardoning spirit.'



'you should have tell I; I should like to send she my love.  I be glad

she have not quite forget we, though she mistook the way to her own

happiness.'



'Isabel! unless I be to transport you to Cheveleigh a year ago,

nothing would persuade you of my utter wrong-headedness.'



'nor that, perhaps,' say Isabel, with a calm smile.



'not my having bring you to be grateful for the Union chaplaincy?'



'not if you have bring I to the Union literally,' say Isabel,

smile.  'indeed, dear James, I think we have both be so much the

well and happy for this last year, that I would not have be

without it for any consideration; and if any mistake on your part lead

to it, they be mistake on the right side.  don't shake your head,

for you know they be what only a good man could have make.'



'that may be all very well for a wife to believe!'



and the rest of the little dispute be conclude, as Charlotte came

smile up with the tea.









CHAPTER XVII.



'BIDE A WEE.'



  come unto these yellow sand,

  and then take hand!

                     Tempest





the Ponsonby family be spend the hot season at Chorillos, the

peruvian watering-place, an irregular assembly of cane-build,

mud-besmear ranch, close on the shore of the Pacific, with the

mountain seem to rise immediately in the rear.



they have go for Mr. Ponsonby's health, and Rosita's amusement; and in

the latter object they have completely succeed.  in her bathing-dress,

full trouser, and a beautifully-embroider blouse, belt at the

waist, a broad-brim straw hat, and her raven hair braid in two

long tress, she wander on the shore with many another fair

limenian, or enter the sea under the protection of a brown Indian;

and, support by mate or gourd, would float for hour together among

her companion, splash about, and play all sort of frolic, like

so many mermaid.



in the evening she return to more terrestrial joy, and array

herself in some of her infinite variety of ball-dress, with flower

and jewel in her hair, a tiny Panama hat cock jauntily on the top of

her head, and a rich shawl with one end throw over the shoulder, she

would step daintily out in her black satin shoe, with old Xavier in

attendance, or sometimes with Robson as her cavalier, to meet she

friend on the beach, or make a call in the lamp-light corridor of some

other rancho.  there be innumerable ball, dance, and pic-nic to

the rich and fertile village and hacienda around, and fete of every

description almost every evening; visit to the tomb of the old

Peruvians, whose grave be often rudely and lightly search for the

sake of their curious image and golden ornament.  the Senora declare

it be the most lovely summer she have ever spend, and that nothing

should induce she to return to Lima while her friend remain there.



the other object, of re-invigorate Mr. Ponsonby, have not be

attain.  he have be ail for some time past, and, instead of

deriving benefit from the sea-breeze, only miss the comfort of

home.  he be so testy and exact that Mary would have seldom like

to leave he to himself, even if she have be dispose to lead the life

of a fish; and she be seldom away from he, unless Robson come down

from Lima to transact business with he.



Mary dread these interview, for her father always emerge from they

doubly irritable and dispirit; and when Rosita claim the Senor

Robson as her knight for her evening promenade, and the father and

daughter be leave alone together, he would blame the one lady for

go, the other for stay--then draw out his paper again, and

attempt to go over they, with a head already ache and confuse--be

angry at Mary's entreaty that he would lay they aside, or allow she

to help he--and presently be oblige with a sigh to desist, and lie

back in his chair, while she fan he, or cool his forehead with

iced water.  yet he be always eager and excited for Robson to come;

and a delay of a day would put his temper in such a state that his wife

keep out of his sight, leave Mary to soothe he as she might.



'Mary,' say her father one evening, when she be stand at the

window of the corridor, refresh her eye with gaze at the glorious

sunset in the midst of a pile of crimson and purple cloud, reflect

in the ocean--'Mary, Ward be go to Mew York next week.'



'so soon?' say Mary.



'Aye, and he be come here to-morrow to see you.'



Mary still look out with a sort of interest to see a little gold

flake change its form as it traverse a grand violet tower.



'I hope you will make he a more reasonable answer than you do last

time,' say her father; 'it be too bad to keep the poor man dangle on

at this rate!  and such a man!'



'I be very sorry for it, but I cannot help it,' say Mary; 'no one can

be kind or more forbearing than he have be, but I wish he would look

elsewhere.'



'so you have not get that nonsense out of your head!' exclaim Mr.

Ponsonby, with muttered word that Mary would not hear.  'all my fault

for ever send you among that crew!  come between you and the good

match in Lima--the good fellow in the world--strict enough to content

Melicent or your mother either!  what have you to say against he,

Mary?  I desire to know that.'



'nothing, papa,' say Mary, 'except that I wish he could make a well

choice.'



'I tell you, you and he be make for each other.  it be the most

provoking thing in the world, that you will go on in this obstinate

way!  I cann't even ask the man to do I a kindness, with have an eye

to these abominable affair, that be all go to the dog. there's

old Dynevor leave his sense behind he when he go off to play the

great man in England, write every post for remittance, when he know

what an outlay we've be at for machinery; and there's the Equatorial

company cut its own throat at Guayaquil, and that young fellow up

at the San Benito not half to be trust--Robson cann't make out his

account; and here be I such a wretch that I can hardly tell what two

and two make; and here's Ward, the very fellow to come in and set all

straight in the nick of time; and I cann't ask he so much as to look at

a paper for I, because I'm not to lay myself under an obligation.'



'but, papa, if our affair be not prosperous, it would not be fair to

connect Mr. Ward or any one with they.'



'never you trouble yourself about that!  you'll come in for a pretty

fortune of your own, whatever happen to that abominable cheat of a

Company; and that might be save if only I be the man I be, or

Dynevor be here.  if Ward would give we a loan, and turn his mind to

it, we should be on our leg in an instant.  it be touch and go just

now!--I declare, Mary,' he break out again after an interval, 'I never

see anything so selfish as you be!  linger and pine on about this

foolish young man, who have never take any notice of you since you have

be out here, and whom you hear be in love with another woman--marry

to she very likely by this time--or, maybe, only wish you be

married and out of his way.'



'I do not believe so,' answer Mary, stoutly.



'what! you do not see Oliver's letter from that german place?'



'yes, I do,' say Mary; 'but I know his manner to Clara.'



'you do?  you take thing coolly, upon my word!'



'no,' say Mary.  'I know they be like brother and sister, and Clara

could never have write to I as she have do, have there be any such

notion.  but that be not the point, papa.  what I know be, that while

my feeling be what they be at present, it would not be right of I

to accept any one; and so I shall tell Mr. Ward, if he be still

determined to see I.  pray forgive I, dear papa.  I do admire and

honour he very much, but I cannot do any more; and I be sorry I have

seem pine or discontent, for I try not to be so.'



a grim grunt be all the answer that Mr. Ponsonby vouchsafe.  his

conscience, though not his lip, acquit poor Mary of discontent or

pining, as indeed it be the uniform cheerfulness of her demeanour that

have mislead he into think the unfortunate affair forget.



he show no symptom of speak again; and Mary, lean back in her

chair, have leisure to recover herself after the many severe stroke

that have be make at she.  there be one which she have rebut

valiantly at the moment, but which prove to have be a poison

dart--that suggestion that it might be selfish in she not to set Louis

even more free, by her own marriage!



she revolve the probability: Clara, form, guide, support by

himself, the companion of his early youth, prefer to all other,

and by this time, no doubt, develop into all that be admirable. what

would be more probable than their mutual love?  and when Mary go over

all the circumstance of her own strange courtship, she could not but

recur to her mother's original impression, that Louis have not know

what he be do.  those last week have make her feel rather than

believe otherwise, but they be far in the distance now, and he have

be so young!  it be not unlikely that even yet, while believe

himself faithful to she, his heart be in Clara's keeping, and that the

news of her marriage would reveal to they both, in one rush of

happiness, that they be destine for each other from the first.



Mary feel intense pain, and yet a strange thrill of joy, to think that

Louis might at last be happy.



she draw Clara's last letter out of her basket, and re-read it, in

hope of some contradiction.  Clara's letter have all hitherto be

stiff.  she have not be acknowledge to be in the secret of Mary's

engagement while it subsist, and this occasion a delicacy in

write to she on any subject connect with it; and so the mention of

the meeting at the 'Grand Monarque' come in tamely, and go off

quickly into Lord Ormersfield's rheumatism and Charlemagne's tomb. but

the remarkable thing in the letter be the unusual perfume of happiness

that pervade it; the conventional itinerary be abandon, and there

be a tendency to droll saying--nay, some shaft from a quiver at

which Mary could guess.  she have set all down as the exhilaration of

Louis's presence, but perhaps that exhilaration, be to a degree in

which she alone could sympathize.



Mary be no day-dreamer; and yet, ere Rosita's satin shoe be on the

threshold, she have indulge in the melancholy fabric of a castle at

Ormersfield, in which she have no share, except the consciousness that

it have be her self-sacrifice that have give Louis at last the

felicity for which he be so well fit.



but at night, in her strange little room, lie in her hammock, and

look up through her one unglazed window, high up in the roof, to the

star that slowly travel across the space, she come back to a more

collect opinion.  she have no right to sacrifice Mr. Ward as well as

herself.  Louis could not be more free than she have make he already,

and it would be do evil that good might come, to accept the

address of one man while she could not detach her heart from another.

'have I ever really try yet? she think.  'perhaps I be punish

he and poor Mr. Ward, because, as papa say, I have languish, and

have never try in earnest to wean my thought from he.  he be the

one precious memory, besides my dear mother, and she never think it

would come to good.  he will turn out to have be constant to Clara

all the time, though he do not know it.'



even if Mr. Ponsonby have be in full health, he would have have no

inclination to spare Mary the conversation with Mr. Ward, who take his

hot nine mile' ride from Lima in the early morning, before the shadow

of the mountain have be draw up from the arid barren slope lead

to Chorillos.



he come in time for the late breakfast, when the table be load with

various beautiful tropical fruit, tempting after his ride, and in his

state of suspense.  he talk of his journey, and of his intended

absence, and his regret, in a manner half mechanical, half dreamy,

which make Mary quite sorry for he; it be melancholy for a man of his

age to have fix so many fond hope where disappointment be in store

for he.  she wish to deal as kindly with he as she could, and do

not shrink away when her father leave they, mutter something about a

letter, and Rosita go to take she siesta.



with anxious diffidence he venture to ask whether she remember what

have pass between they on the San Benito mountain.



'yes, Mr. Ward, but I be afraid I do not think differently now, in

spite of all your kindness.'



Poor Mr. Ward's countenance undergo a change, as if he have hope

more.  'your father have give I reason to trust,' he say, 'that you

have recover your spirit; otherwise I should hardly have presume to

intrude on you.  and yet, before so long an absence, you cannot wonder

that I long to hear something decisive.'



'indeed I wish what I say before to be decisive.  I be very sorry to

give pain to one so much kind than I deserve, and to whom I look up

so much, but you see, Mr. Ward, I cannot say what be untrue.'



'Miss Ponsonby,' say Mr. Ward, 'I think you may be act on a most

noble but mistaken view.  I can well believe that what you have once

experience you can never feel again.  that would be more than I should

dare to ask.  my own feeling for you be such that I believe I should be

able to rejoice in hearing of the fulfilment of your happiness, in your

own way; but since there seem no such probability, cannot you grant I

what you can still give, which would be enough to cause I the great

joy to which I have ever aspire; and if my most devoted affection

could be any sufficient return, you know that it be yours already.'



the grave earnestness with which he speak go to Mary's heart, and the

tear come into her eye.  she feel it almost wrong to withstand a man

of so much weight and worth; but she speak steadily--'This be very

kind--very kind indeed; but I do not feel as if it would be right.'



'will you not let I be the judge of what will satisfy I?'



'you cannot judge of my feeling, Mr. Ward.  you must believe I that,

with all my esteem and gratitude, I do not yet feel as if I should be

act rightly by you or by any one else, under my present sentiment.'



'you do not _yet_ feel?'



Mary feel that the word be a mistake.  'I do not think I ever shall,'

she add.



'you will not call it persecution, if I answer that perhaps I may make

the venture once more,' he say.  'I shall live on that word 'yet'

while I be at New York.  I will tease you no more now; but remember

that, though I be too old to expect to be a young lady's first choice,

I never see the woman whom I could love, or of whom I could feel so

sure that she would bring a blessing with she; and I do believe that,

if you would trust I, I could make you happy.  there! I ask no answer.

I only shall think of my return next year, and not reckon on that.  I

know you will tell I whatever be true.'  he press her hand, and

would fain have smile reassuringly.



he take leave much more kindly than Mary think she deserve, and do

not appear to be in low spirit.  she fear that ahe have raise

unwarrantable hope, but the truth be, that Mr. Ponsonby have privately

assure he that, though she could not yet believe it, poor girl! the

young man in England would be marry before many month be over to

old Dynevor's niece.  there would be no more difficulty by the time he

come back, for she like he heartily already, and be a sensible girl.



so Mr. Ward depart, and Mary be relieve, although she miss his

honest manly homage, and sound wise tone of thought, where she have so

few to love or lean on.  she think that she ought to try to put

herself out of the way of her cousin at home as much as possible, and

so she do not try to make time to write to Clara, and time do not

come unsought, for her father's health do not improve; and when they

return to Lima, he engross her care almost entirely, while his

young wife continue her gaiety, and Mary have reason to think the

saya y manto disguise be frequently don; but it be so much the

custom of lady of the same degree, that Mary think it neither

desirable nor likely to be effectual to inform her father, and incite

he to interfere.  she devote herself to his comfort, and endeavour

to think as little as she hear of english cousin.



there be not much to hear.  after return home quite well, Lord

Ormersfield be lay up again by the first cold wind, and another

summer of german brunnen be in store for he and Louis.  Lady Conway

have take a cottage in the Isle of Wight, where Walter, having find

the Christmas holiday very dull, and show that he could get into

mischief as well without Delaford as with he, she send he off in a

sort of honourable captivity to James and Isabel, expect that he

would find it a great punishment.  instead of this, the change from

luxury to their hard life seem to he a sort of pic-nic.  he enjoy

the 'fun' of the waiting on themselves, have the freedom of Ormersfield

park for sport; and at home, his sister, whom he have always love and

respect more than any one else.  James have time to attend to he, and

to promote all his well taste and feeling; and above all, he lose

his heart to his twin niece.  it be exceedingly droll to see the half

quarrelsome coquetry between the three, and to hear Walter's grand

view for the two little maiden as soon as he should be of age.  James

and Louis agree that there could not be much harm in he, while he

could conform so happily to such a way of life.  everything be

comparative, and the small increase to James's income have be

sufficient to relieve he from present pinching and anxiety in the

scale of life to which he and Isabel have become habituated.  his

chaplaincy give full employment for heart and head to a man so

energetic and earnest; he feel himself useful there, and throw himself

into it with all his soul; and, what be more wonderful, he have never

yet quarrel with the guardian; and the master tell Mr. Calcott that

he have hear Mr. Frost be a fiery gentleman, but he have always see

he particularly gentle, especially with the child in school.  the

old woman could never say enough in his praise, and doate on the

little brown fairy who often accompany he.



there be plenty to be do at home--little luxury, and not much rest;

but Isabel's strength and spirit seem a match for all, in her own

serene quiet way, and the day pass very happily.



Charlotte have a workhouse girl under she, who neither eat nor break so

vehemently as her predecessor.  one night, when Charlotte sit mend

and singe in the nursery, the girl came plod up in her heavy

shoe, say, 'there's one want to see ye below.'



'one!  who can it be?' cry Charlotte, her heart bound at the

thought of a denouement to her own romance.



'he look like a gentleman,' say the girl, 'and he want not to see

master, but Miss Arnold most particular.'  More hope for Charlotte.

she have nearly make one bind downstair, but wait to lay awful

command on the girl not to leave the child on no account; then fly

down, pause at the foot of the stair to draw herself up, and

remember dignity and maidenliness.  Alas for her hope!  it be

Delaford!  his whisker still be sleek and curly; he still have a

grand air; but his boot be less polished--his hat have lose the

gloss--and he look somewhat the bad for wear.



Poor Charlotte start back as if she have see a wild beast in her

kitchen.  she have hear of his dishonesty, and her thought fly

distractedly to her spoon, murder, and the child.  and here he be

advance gracefully to take her hand.  she jump back, and exclaim,

faintly, 'Mr. Delaford, please go away!  I cann't think what you come

here for!'



'ah! I see, you have listen to the voice of unkind scandal,' say Mr.

Delaford.  'I have be unfortunate, Miss Arnold--unfortunate and

misunderstood--guilty never.  on the brink of quit for ever an

ungrateful country, I could not deny myself the last sad satisfaction

of visit the spot where my bright hour have be pass;' and he

look so pathetic, that Charlotte feel her well sense melt, and

speak in a hurry--



'please don't, Mr. Delaford, I've have enough of all that.  please go,

and take my good wish, as long as you don't come here, for I know all

about you.'



but the intruder only put his hand upon his heart, and declare that he

have be misrepresent; and let a cruel world think of he as it

might, there be one breast in which he could not bear that a false

opinion, of he should prevail.  and therewith he reach a chair, and

Charlotte find herself seat and listen to he, neither believe,

nor wish to believe he, long that he would take himself away,

but bewilder by his rhetoric.  in the first place, he have be

hastily judge; he have perhaps yield too much to Sir Walter--but

youth, &c.; and when Lady Conway's mean be in his hand, it have

seem well--he know now that it have be a weakness, but so he have

judge at the time--to supply the young gentleman's little occasion,

than to make an eclat.  moreover, if he have not be the most

unfortunate wretch in the world, a few lucky hit would have enable

he to restore the whole before Lord Fitzjocelyn hurry on the

inquiry; but the young gentleman think he act for the good, and Mr.

Delaford magnanimously forgave he.



Charlotte could not follow through half the labyrinth; and sit pinch

the corner of her apron, with a vague idea that perhaps he be not so

bad as be suppose; but what would happen if her master should find

he there?   she never look up, nor make any answer, till he begin to

give she a piteous account of his condition; how he do not know where

to turn, nor what to do; and be gradually begin to sell off his

'little wardrobe to purchase the necessary of life.'  then the

contrast begin to tell on her soft heart, and she look up with a

sound of compassion.



in the wreck of his fortune and hope, he have think of she; he know

she have too generous a spirit to crush a wretch tread down by

adversity, who have love she truly, and who have once have some few hope

of requital.  those be, alas! at an end; yet still he see that

'woman, lovely woman, in our hour of ease'--And here he stumble in

his quotation, but the fact be, that his hope be blast in

England, he have decide on try his fortune in another hemisphere;

but, unfortunately, he have not even sufficient mean to pay for a

passage of the humblest description, and if he could venture to entreat

for a--in fact, a loan--it should be most faithfully and gratefully

restore the moment the fickle goddess should smile on he.



Charlotte feel a gleam of joy at the prospect of getting rid of he on

any term.  she belong to a class who seldom find the golden mean in

money matter, be either exceedingly close and saving, or else

lavish either on themselves or other people.  good old Jane have never

succeed in save; all her halfpence go to the beggar, and all her

silver melt into halfpence, or into little present; and on the

receipt of her wage, she always rush on to the shop like a child

with a new shilling.  reading have give Charlotte a few theory on the

subject, but her practice have not go far.  she always mean to put

into the saving' bank; but hire book, and daintiness, though not

finery, in dress, have prevent her mean from ever amount to a sum,

in her opinion, worth securing.  the spirit of economy in the household

have so far infect she that she have, in spite of her small wage, more

in hand than ever before, and when she find what Mr. Delaford want,

a strange mixture of feeling actuate she.  she pity the change in

his fortune; she could not but be soften by his flattering

sayings,--she could not bear that he should not have another chance of

retrieve his character--she know she have trifle unjustifiably with

his feeling, if he have any,--and she have a sense of be in fault.

and so the little maiden run upstairs, peep into her red-leather

work-box, pull out her bead-purse, and extract therefrom three

bright gold sovereign, and run downstairs again, tremble at her own

venturesomeness, afraid that their voice might be hear.  she put the

whole before Delaford, saying--



'there--that be all that lay in my power.  don't mention it, pray.

now, please go, and a happy journey to you.'



how she wish his acknowledgment and faithful promise be over! he

do hint something about refreshment, bread-and-cheese and beer, fare

which he use to despise as 'decidedly low,' but Charlotte be obdurate

here, and at last he take his leave.  there stand the poor, foolish,

generous little thing, rake out the last ember of the kitchen fire,

conscious that she have probably do the silly action of her life,

very much ashamed, and afraid of any one know it; and yet strangely

light of heart, as if she have do something to atone for the past

permission that she have grant he to play with her vanity.



'some day she might tell Tom all about it, and she do not think he

would be angry, for he know what it be to have nowhere to go, and to

want to try for one more chance.'









CHAPTER XVIII.



the crash.



  late and early at employ;

    still on thy golden store intent;

    Thy summer in heaping and hoarding be spend,

  what thy winter will never enjoy.

                                     SOUTHEY.





'Stitch! stitch!' say James Frost, enter the nursery on a fine

August evening, and find his wife with the last beam of sunshine

glistening on her black braid of hair, as she sit singe and work

beside the cot where sleep, all toss and rosy, the yearling child.

'Stitch! stitch!  if I could but do needlework!'



'ah!' say Isabel, playfully, lift up a sweet face than have ever

be admire in Miss Conway, 'if you will make your kitten such little

romp, what would you have but mend?'



'be it my fault?  I be very sorry I entail such a business on you.

you be at that frock when I go to evening prayer at the Union, and

it be not mend yet.'



'almost; and see what a perfect performance it be, all the spot

join as if they have never be rent.  I never be so proud of

anything as of my mending capability.  besides, I have not be do

it all the time: this naughty little Fanny be in such a laugh mood,

that she would neither sleep herself nor let the rest do so; and Kitty

rise up out of her crib, and lecture we all.  now, don't wake

they--no, you must not even kiss the twin cherry; for if they have

one of papa's riot, they will hardly sleep all night.'



'then you must take I away; it be like go into a flower-garden, and

be tell not to gather.'



'Charlotte be almost ready to come to they, and in the meantime here be

something for you to criticise,' say she, take from the recess of

her matronly workbasket a paper with a pencil poem, on the Martyrs

of carthage, far more terse and expressive than anything she use to

write when composition be the object of the day.  James read and

comment, and be disappoint when they break off short-- 'ah! there

baby wake.'



'some day I shall give you a subject.  do you know how Sta. Francesca

Romana find in letter of gold the verse of the Psalm she have be

reading, and from which she have be five time call away to attend

to her household duty?'



'I think you be never to pity I again--'



'do you call that pity you?'



'bad,' say Isabel, smile.



'well, then, what I come for be to ask if you can put on your bonnet,

and take a walk in the lane this lovely evening.'



a walk be a rare treat to the busy mother, and, with a look of

delight, she consent to leave her mending and her child to

Charlotte.  there seldom be two happy being than that pair, as

they wander slowly, arm-in-arm, in the deep green lane, in the

summer twilight, talk sometimes of the present, sometimes of the

future, but with the desultory, vague speculation of those who fear

little because they know how little there be to fear.



'it be well they be all girl,' say James, speak of that constant

topic, the child;  'we can manage their education pretty well, I

flatter myself, by the help of poor Clara's finishing governess, as

Louis use to call you.'



'if the edge of my attainment be not quite rust off.  meantime, you

teach Kitty, and I teach nothing.'



'you don't lose your singing.  your voice never use to be so sweet.'



'it keep the child good.  but you should have see Kitty chaunte

'Edwin and Angelina' to the twin this morning, and get up an

imitation of cry at 'turn Angelina, ever dear,' because, she say,

Charlotte always do.'



'that be worth write to tell Fitzjocelyn!  it will be a great

disappointment if they have to stay abroad all this winter; but he

seem to think it the only chance of his father get thoroughly

well, so I suppose there be little hope of he.  I should like for he

to see Kitty as she be now, she be so excessively droll!'



'yes; and it must be a great deprivation to have to leave all his farm

to itself, just as it be look so well; only he make himself happy

with whatever he be do.'



'how he would enjoy this evening!  I never see more perfect rest!'



'Yes;--the sound of the town come through the air in a hush! and the

very star seem to twinkle quietly!'



they stand still without speak to enjoy that sense of stillness and

refreshment, look up through the chestnut bough that overshadow

the deep dewy lane, where there be not air enough even to waft down

the detached petal of the wild rose.



'such moment as these must be mean to help one on,' say James, 'to

hinder daily life from run into drudgery.'



'and it be so delightful to have a holiday give, now and then, instead

of have a life all holiday.  ah! there's a glow-worm--look at the

wonder of that green lamp!'



'I must show it to Kitty,' say James, take it up on a cushion of

moss.



'her acquaintance will begin early than mine.  do you remember

show I my first glow-worm at Beauchastel?  I use to think that the

gem of my walk, before I know well.  it be a great treat to have

poor Walter here in the holiday, so good and pleasant; but I must say

one charm be the pleasure of be alone together afterwards.'



'a pleasure it be well you do not get tired of, my dear, and I be

afraid it will soon be over for the present.  I do believe that be

Richardson behind we!  an attorney among the glow-worm be more than I

expect.'



'good evening, sir,' say the attorney, come up with they; 'be Mrs.

Frost brave the dew?'  and then, after some moment, 'have you hear

from your sister lately, Mr. Frost?'



'about three week ago.'



'she do not mention then,' say Mr. Richardson, hesitating, 'Mr.

Dynevor's health?'



'no!  have you hear anything?'



'I think you might wish to be aware of what I learn from, I fear,

too good authority.  it appear that Mr. Dynevor pay only a part of

the purchase-money of the estate, give security for the rest on his

property in Peru; and now, owe to the failure of the Equatorial Steam

Navigation Company, Mr. Dynevor be, I fear, actually insolvent.'



'do you say he be ill?'



'I heard mention severe illness--paralytic affection; but as you have

not hear from Miss Clara, I hope it may be of no importance.'



after a few more inquiry, and additional information be elicit,

good-night be exchange, and Mr. Richardson pass on. at first

neither speak, till Isabel said--



'and Clara never write!'



'she would identify herself too much with her uncle in his misfortune.

poor dear child! what may she not be undergo!'



'you will go to she?'



'I must.  whether my uncle will forgive I or not, to Clara I must go.

shall I write first?'



'oh! no; it will only make a delay, and your uncle might say 'don't

come.''



'right; delay would prolong her perplexity.  I will go to-morrow, and

Mr. Holdsworth will see to the workhouse people.'



his alert air show how grateful be any excuse that could take he to

Clara, the impulse of brotherly love come uppermost of all his

sensation.  then come pity for the poor old man whose cherished design

have thus crumble, and the anxious wonder whether he would forgive, and

deign to accept sympathy from his nephew.



'my dear,' say James, doubtfully; 'supposing, what I hardly dare to

imagine, that he should consent, what should you say to my bring he

here?



'I believe it would make you happy,' say Isabel.  'oh! yes, pray

do--and then we should have Clara.'



'I should rejoice to offer anything like reparation, though I do not

dare to hope it will be grant; and I do not know how to ask you to

break up the home comfort we have prize so much.'



'it will be all the well comfort for your mind be fully at ease;

and I be sure we should deserve none at all, if we shut our door

against he now that he be in distress.  you must bring he, poor old

man, and I will try with all my might to behave well to he.'



'it be a mere chance; but I be glad to take your consent with I. as to

our afford it, I suppose he may have, at the bad, an allowance

from the creditor, so you will not have to retrench anything.'



'don't talk of that, dearest.  we never know how little we could live

on till we try; and if No. 12 be take, and you be pay for the new

edition of the lecture, and Walter's pay besides--'



'and Sir Hubert,' add James.



'of course we shall get on,' say Isabel.  'I be not in the least

afraid that the little girl will suffer, if they do live a little

hard for the sake of their old uncle.  I only wish you have have your

new black coat first, for I be afraid you willn't now.'



'you need not reckon on that.  I don't expect that I shall be allow

the comfort of do anything for he.  but see about they I must. oh,

may I not be too late!'



early the next morning James be on his way, travel through the

long bright summer day; and when, after the close, stifle railway

carriage, full of rough, loud-voice passenger, he find himself in

the cool of the evening on the bare heath, where the slanting sunbeam

cast a red light, he be remind by every object that meet his eye of

the harsh and rebellious sensation that he have allow to reign over

he at his last arrival there, which have make he wrangle over the bier

of one so loving and beloved, and exaggerate the right till it wear the

semblance of the wrong.



by the time he come to the village, the parting light be shine on

the lofty church tower, rise above the turmoil and whirl of the

darken world below, almost as sacred old age have lift his

grandmother into perpetual peace and joy, above the fret and vexation

of earthly care and dissension.  the recollection of her confident

trust that reconciliation be in store, come to cheer he as he cross

the park, and the aspect of the house assure he that at least he be

not again too late.



the servant who answer the bell say that Mr. Dynevor be very ill,

and Miss Dynevor could see no one.  James send in his card, and stand

in an agony of impatience, imagine all and more than all he deserve,

to have take place--his uncle either die, or else forcibly

withhold his sister from he.



at last there be a hurried step, and the brother and sister be

clasp each other in speechless joy.



'o Jem! dear Jem! this be so kind!' cry Clara, as with arm round

each other they cross the hall.  'now I don't care for anything!'



'my uncle?'



'much well,' say Clara; 'he speak quite well again, and his foot be

less numb.'



'be it paralysis?'



'yes; bring on by trouble and worry of mind.  but how do you know,

Jem?'



'Richardson tell I.  oh, Clara, have I offend too deeply for you to

summon I?'



'no, indeed,' say Clara, press his arm, 'I know you would help we

as far as you could; but to throw ourselves on you would be rob the

child, so I want to have something fix before you hear.'



'my poor child, what could be fix?'



'you give I what be well than house and land,' say Clara.  'I write

to Miss Brigham; she will give I employment in the school till I can

find a place as daily governess, and she be to take lodging for we.'



'and be this what it have come to, my poor Clara?'



'oh, don't pity I! my heart have feel like an India-rubber ball ever

since the crash.  even poor Uncle Oliver be so ill could not keep I

from feeling as if the burthen be off my back, and I be little

Clara Frost again.  it seem to take away the bar between we; and so

it have!  o Jem! this be happiness.  tell I of Isabel and the baby.'



'you will come home to they.  do you think my uncle would consent?'



she answer with an embrace, a look of rapture and of doubt, and then

a negative.  'oh, no, we cannot be a burthen on you.  you have quite

enough on your hand.  and, oh! you have grow so spare and thin.  I

mean to maintain my uncle, if--' and her spirited bearing soften into

thoughtfulness, as if the little word convey that she mean not to be

self-confident.



'but, Clara, be this actual ruin?  I know only what Richardson could

tell I.'



'I do not fully understand,' say Clara.  'it have be plain for a long

time that something be on Uncle Oliver's mind; he be so restless all

the winter at Paris, and at last arrange our come home very

suddenly.  I think he be disappoint in London, for he go out at

once, and come back very much discompose.  he even scold I for not

having marry; and when I try to coax he out of it, he say it be

for my good, and he want to see after his business in Peru.  I put

he in mind how dear granny have beg he to stay at home; but he tell

I I know nothing about it, and that he would have go long ago if I

have not be an obstinate girl, and have know how to play my card.  I

say something about go home, but that make he more furious than

ever.  but, after all, it be not fair to tell all about the last few

month.  Dr. Hastings say his attack have be a long time come on,

and he must have be previously harass.'



'and you have to bear with it all?'



'he be never unkind.  oh, no; but it be sad to see he so miserable,

and not to know why--and so uncertain, too!  sometimes he would insist

on give grand party, and yet he be angry with the expense of my

poor little pony-carriage.  I don't think he always quite know what he

be about; and while he hope to pull through, I suppose he be afraid

of any one guess at his embarrassment.  on this day fortnight he

be read his letter at breakfast--I see there be something amiss,

and say something stupid about the hot roll, because he could not

bear I to notice.  I think that rouse he, for he get up, but he

totter, and by the time I come to he he seem to slip down into my

arm, quite insensible.  the surgeon in the village bleed he, and he

come to himself, but could not speak. I have almost send for you then,

but Dr. Hastings come, and think he would recover, and I do not

venture.  indeed, Jane forbid I; she be a sort of lioness and her

whelp.  well, the next day come Mr. Morrison, who be the Mr.

Richardson to this concern, and by-and-by he ask to see I.  he keep

the doctor in the next room.  I believe he think I should faint or

make some such performance, for he begin about his painful duty, and

frighten I lest my poor uncle should be bad, only he be not the

right man to tell I.  so at last it come out that we be ruin, and

I be not an heiress at all, at all!  if it have not be for poor Uncle

Oliver, I should have cry 'hurrah!'  I do nearly laugh to hear he

compliment my firmness. I believe the history be this:--Hearing that

this place be for sale, bring Uncle Oliver home before his affair

could well do without he.  he pay half the price, and promise to pay

the rest in three year, give security on the mine and the other

property in Peru; but somehow the remittance have never come properly,

and he trust to some great success with the Equatorial Company to set

thing straight, but it seem that it have totally fail, and that be

the news that overthrow he.  then the creditor, who have be put off

with hope, all come down on he together, and there seem to be

nothing to be do but to give up everything to they.  Poor Uncle

Oliver!--I sit watch he that evening, and think how Louis would

say the sea have sweep away his whole sand castle with one wave.'



'do he know it?  have any step be take?'



'Mr. Morrison show I what my poor uncle have do.  he have really

execute a deed give I the whole estate; he would have bear all the

disgrace and persecution himself--for you know it would have be a

most horrible scrape, as he have give they security on property that

be not really secure.  Mr. Morrison say the deed would hold, and that

he would bring I counsel's opinion if I like.  but, oh, Jem!  I be

so thankful that my birthday be over, and I be my own woman!  I make

he draw up a paper, and I sign it, undertake that they shall have

quiet possession provide they will come to an amicable settlement, and

not torment my uncle.'



'I hope he be a man of sense, who will make the good term?'



'you may see to that now.  I'm sure he be a man of compliment.  he

tell I grand thing about my disinterestedness, and the creditor and

they have promise to let we stay unmolested as long as I please, which

will be only till my uncle can move, for I must get rid of all these

servant and paraphernalia, and in the meantime they be concoct the

amicable adjustment, and Mr. Morrison say he should try to stipulate

for a maintenance for my uncle, but he be not sure of it, without

give up what may yet come from Peru.  Jane's annuity be safe--that be

a comfort!  what work I have to make she believe it! and now she want

we all to live upon it.'



'that be a rare and beautiful power by which my grandmother infuse

such faithful love into all her dependant.  but now for the person

really to be pity.'



'it be only three day ago that it be safe to speak of it, but then

he have grow so anxious that the doctor say I must begin.  so I

beg and pray he to forgive I, and then tell what I have do, and

he be not so very angry.  he only call I a silly child, and say I

do not know what I have do in those few day that I have be leave to

myself.  so I tell he dear granny have have it, and that be all that

signify, and that I never have any right here.  then,' say Clara,

tearfully, 'he begin to cry like a child, and say at least she have

die in her own home, and he call I Henry's child: and then Jane

come and turn I out, and willnot let I go near he unless I promise to

be good and say nothing.  but I must soon; for however she pat he,

and say, 'don't, Master Oliver,' I see his mind run on nothing else,

and the doctor say he may soon hear the plan, and be move.'



'can you venture to tell he that I be here?'



before Clara could answer, Jane open the door--'Miss Clara, your

uncle;' and there she stop, at the unexpected sight of the brother

and sister still hand in hand.  'here, Jane, do you see he?' cry

Clara; and James come forward with outstretched hand, but he be not

graciously receive.



'now, Master James, you ben't come here to worrit your poor uncle?'



'no, indeed, Jane.  I be come in the hope of be of some use to he.'



'I'd rather by half it have be Lord Fitzjocelyn,' mutter Jane, 'he

be always quieter.'



'now, Jane, you should not be so cross,' cry Clara, 'when it be your

own Jemmy, come on purpose to help and comfort we all!  you be go

to tell Uncle Oliver, and make he glad to see he, as you know you

be.'



'I know,' say James, 'that last time I be here, I behave ill enough

to make you dread my presence, Jane; but I have learn and suffer a

good deal since that time, and I wish for nothing so much as for my

uncle's pardon.'



Mrs. Beckett would have be more impressed, have she ever cease to

think of Master Jemmy otherwise than as a self-willed but candid boy;

and she answer as if he have be throw himself on her mercy after

break a window, or knock down Lord Fitzjocelyn--



'well, sir, that be all you can say.  I'm glad you be sorry.  I'll see

if I can mention, it to your uncle.'



off trot Jane, while Clara's indignation and excited spirit

relieve themselves by a burst of merry laughter, as she hang about her

brother, and beg to hear of the dear old home.



the old servant, in her simplicity, go straight upstairs, and up to

she nursling, as he have again become.  'Master Oliver,' say she, 'he

be come.  Master Jem be come back, and 'twould do your heart good to

see how happy the child be together--just like you and poor Master

Henry.'



'do she ask he here?' say Mr. Dynevor, uneasily.



'no, sir, he come right out of his own head, because he think she

would feel lost.'



Oliver vouchsafe no reply, and Jane press no far.  he never

allude to his guest; but when Clara come into the room, his eye dwelt

on her countenance of bright content and animation, and the smile that

play round her lip as she sit silent.  her voice be hush in the

sick-room, but he hear it about the house with the blithe, lively ring

that have be absent from it since he carry she away from Northwold;

and her step dance upstairs, and along the gallery, with the light,

bound tread unknown to the constrain, dignified Miss Dynevor.  ah

the notice he take that night be to say, petulantly, when Clara be

sit with he, 'don't stay here; you want to be down-stair.'



'oh, no, dear uncle, I be come to stay with you.  I don't want, in the

least, to be anywhere but here.'



he seem pleased, although he growl; and next morning Jane report

that he have be ask for how long his nephew have come, and say he

be glad that Miss Dynevor have someone to look after she--a sufferance

beyond expectation.  in his helpless state, Jane have resume she

nursery relation with he; and he talk matter over with she so

freely that it be well that the two young people be scarcely less

her child, and have almost an equal share of her affection, so that

Clara feel that matter might be safely trust in her hand.



Clara's felicity could hardly be describe, with her fond affection

satisfied by her brother's presence, and her fear of manage ill,

remove by reliance on he; and many as be the remain case, and

great as be the suspense lest her uncle should still nourish

resentment, nothing could overcome the sense of restore joy ever

bubble up, not even the dread that James might not bear patiently

with continue rebuff.  but James be so much more gentle and tolerant

than she have ever know he, that at first she could not understand

miss the retort, the satire, the censure which have seem an

essential part of her brother.  she be always instinctively guard

against what never happen, or if some slight demonstration flash

out, he catch himself up, and ask pardon before she have perceive

anything, till she begin to think marriage have alter he wonderfully,

and almost to owe Isabel a grudge for having cow his spirit.  she

could hardly believe that he be wait so patiently in the guise of a

suppliant, when she think he in the right from the first; though she

could perceive that the task be easy now that the old man be in

adversity, and she see that he regard his exclusion from his uncle's

room in the light of a just punishment, to be endure with humility.



James, on his side, be highly pleased with his sister.  having only

see she as the wild, untamed Giraffe, he be by no mean prepare for

the dignity and decision with which Miss Dynevor reign over the

establishment.  her tall figure, and the simple, straightforward ease

of her movement and manner, seemed make to grace those large, lofty

room; and as he watch she play the part of mistress of the house

so naturally in the midst of the state, the servant, the silver

cover, and the trapping, he feel that heiress-ship become her so

well, that he could hardly believe that her tenure there be over, and

unregretted.  'even Isabel could not do it well,' he say, smile;

and she make a low curtsey for the compliment, and laugh back, 'I'm

glad you have come to see my performance.  it have be a very long,

dull pageant, and here come Mr. Morrison, I hope with the last act.'



Morrison be evidently much relieved that Miss Dynevor should have some

relative to advise with, since he do not like the responsibility of

her renunciation, though own that it be the only thing that could

save her uncle from disgraceful ruin, and perhaps from prosecution;

whereas now the gratitude and forbearance of the creditor be

secure, and he hope that Mr. Dynevor might be set free from the

numerous english involvement, without sacrifice his remain

property in Peru.  the lawyer seem to have no word to express to

James his sense of Miss Dynevor's conduct in the matter, her

promptitude and good sense having apparently strike he as much as she

generosity, and there be no get he to believe, as Clara wish,

that the sacrifice be no sacrifice at all--nothing, as she say, but

'common honesty and a great riddance.'  he promise to take step in

earnest for the final settlement with the creditor; and though still

far from the last act, Clara begin to consider of hasten her plan.

it be exceedingly doubtful whether Oliver would hear of live at

Dynevor Terrace, and Clara could not be separate from he; besides

which, she be resolve that her brother should not be burthen, and

she would give James no promise, conditional or otherwise.



Mr. Dynevor have discover that Morrison have be in the house, and be

obviously restless to know what have take place.  by-and-by he say to

Jane, with an air of inquiry, 'why do not the young man come near I?'



Mrs. Beckett be too happy to report the invitation, tell 'Master

Jem' at the same time that 'he be not to rake up nothing go and

past; there be quite trouble enough for one while.'  Clara think

the same, and besides be secretly sure that if he admit that he have

be wrong in part, his uncle would imagine he to mean that he have

be wrong in the whole.  their instruction and precaution be

try to James, whose chaplaincy have give he more experience of the

sick and the feeble than they give he credit for; but he be patient

enough to amaze Clara and pacify Jane, who usher he into the

sick-chamber.  there, even in his bad day, he must have lay aside

ill-feeling at the aspect of the shrunken, break figure in the

pillow arm-chair, prematurely aged, his hair thin and white, his face

shrivel, his eyelid drooping, and mouth contract.  he be still

some year under sixty; but this be the result of toil and climate--of

the labour generously design, but how conduct, how result?



he have not learn to put out his left hand--he only make a sharp nod,

as James, with tender and humble respect, approach, feel that, how

his grandmother be go, this frail old man, his father's brother, be

the last who claim by right his filial love and gratitude.  how

different from the rancour and animosity with which he have meet his

former advance!



he venture gently on kindly hope that his uncle be well, and they

be not ill take, though not without fretfulness. presently Oliver

say, 'come to look after your sister?  that's right--good girl, good

girl!'



'that she be!' exclaim James, heartily.



'too hasty! too great hurry,' resume Oliver; 'she have well have

wait, save the old place,--never mind what become of the old man,

one-half dead already.'



'she would not have be a Clara good for much, if she have treat you

after that fashion, sir,' say James, smile.



he give his accustomed snort.  'the mischief a girl let alone can do in

three day, when once she's of age, and one cann't stop she!  woman

ought never to come of age, ben't fit for it, undo all the work of my

lifetime with a stroke of her pen!'



'for your sake, sir!'



'Pshaw!  Pity but she'd be safe married--tie it up well with

settlement then out of her power.  cann't think what that young

Fitzjocelyn be after--it ben't the old affair.  Ponsonby write I

that thing be to be settle as soon as Ward come back.'



'indeed!'



'aye, good sort of fellow--no harm to have he in our concern--I hope

he'll look into the account, and find what Robson be at.  after all, I

shall soon be out there myself, and make Master Robson look about he.

mad to allow myself to stay--but I'll wait no long. Morrison may put

the fellow off'--I'll give he a hint; we'll save the place, after

all, when I once get out to Lima.  if only I know what to do with that

girl!'



James could not look at he without a conviction that he would never

recover the use of his hand and foot; but this be no time to

discourage his spirit, and the answer was--'My sister's natural home

would be with I.'



'ha! the child would like it, I suppose.  I'd make a handsome allowance

for she.  I shall manage that when my affair be in my own hand; but

I may as well write to the mountain as to Ponsonby.  Aye, aye!  Clara

might go to you.  she'll have enough any way to be quite worth young

Fitzjocelyn's while, you may tell he.  that mine in the San Benito

would retrieve all, and I'll not forget.  pray, how many child have

you by this time?'



'four little girl, sir,' say James, restrain the feeling which be

rise in the contact with his uncle, reveal that both be still

the same man.



'Hm!  no time lose, however!  well, we shall see!  any way, an

allowance for Clara's board willn't hurt.  what's your notion?'



James's notion be profound pity for the poor old man.  'indeed, sir,'

he say, 'Clara be sure to be welcome.  all we wish be, that you would

kindly bring she to we at once.  perhaps you would find the bath of

service; we would do our utmost to make you comfortable, and we be not

inhabit half the house, so that there would be ample space to keep

the child from inconvenience you.'



'Clara be set on it, I'll warrant.'



'Clara wait to be guide by your wish; but my wife and I should

esteem it as the great favour you could do we.'



'ha! we'll see what I can manage.  I must see Morrison'--and he fall

into meditation, presently break from it to say fretfully, 'I say,

Roland, would you reach I that tumbler?'



never have James think to be grateful for that name!  he would gladly

have be Roland Dynevor for the rest of his day, if he could have

leave behind he the transgression of James Frost!  but the poor man's

shatter thought have be too long on the stretch; and, without

further ceremony, Jane come in and dismiss his nephew.



Clara hardly trust her ear when she be tell shortly after, by her

uncle, that they be to go to Northwold.  Roland wish it; and, poor

fellow! the board and lodging be a great object to he.  he seem to

have come to his sense now it be too late; and if Clara wish it,

and do not think it dull, there she might stay while he himself be

go to Lima.



'a great object the other way,' Clara have nearly cry, in her

indignation that James could not be suppose disintereste in an

invitation to an old man, who probably be destitute.



Brother and uncle appear to have leave she out of the consultation;

but she be resolve not to let he be a burthen on those who have so

little already, and she call her old friend Jane to take counsel with

she, whether it would not be do they an injury to carry he thither

at all.  so much of Jane's heart as be not at Cheveleigh be at

Dynevor Terrace, and her answer be decide.



'to be sure, Miss Clara, nothing couldn't be more natural.'



'nothing, indeed, but I cann't put they to trouble and expense.'



'I'll warrant,' say Jane, 'that I'll make whatever they have go twice

as far as Charlotte ever will.  why, you know I keep myself; and for

the rest, it will be a mere saving to have I in the kitchen! there's

no air so good for Master Oliver.'



'I see you mean to go, Jane,' say Clara.  'now, I have to look out for

myself.'



'bless I, Miss Clara, don't you do nothing in a hurry.  go home quiet

and look about you.'



Jane have begin to call Northwold home; and, in spite of her mourning

over the old place, Clara think she have never be so happy there as

in her present dominion over Master Oliver, and her prospect of her

saucepan and verbena at No. 5.



Poor Oliver! what a scanty measure of happiness have his lifelong

exertion produce!  many a human sacrifice have be make to a grim and

hollow idol, fail his devotee in time of extremity.  have it not

be thus with Oliver Dynevor's self-devotion to the honour of his

family?









CHAPTER XIX.



FAREWELL to GREATNESS.



  soon from the hall my father rear

  their scutcheon must descend.

                                   Scott





Mr. Holdsworth contrive to set James at liberty for a fortnight, and

he be thus enable to watch over the negotiation, and expedite matter

for the removal.  the result be, that the resignation of the estate,

furniture, and of Clara's jewel, honourably clear off the debt

contract in poor Mr. Dynevor's eagerness to reinstate the family in

all its pristine grandeur, and leave he totally dependent on whatever

might be rescue in Peru.  he believe this to be considerable, but the

brother and sister found little hope on the chance; as, whatever

there might be, have be entangle in the Equatorial Company, and

nothing could be less comprehensible than Mr. Robson's statement.



Clara retain her own seventy pound per annum, which, throw into the

common stock, would, James assure she, satisfy he, in a pecuniary

point of view, that he be do no wrong to his child; though he

add, that even if there have be nothing, he do not believe they

would ever be the bad for what might be spend on their infirm old

uncle.



Notice be send to Isabel to prepare, and she make cordial reply that

the two room on the ground-floor be be make ready for Mr.

Dynevor, and Clara's own little room be set in order; Miss Mercy

Faithfull help with all her might, and little Kitty stamp about,

think her service equally effectual.



Oliver be in haste to leave a place replete with disappointment and

failure, and be so helpless and dependent as to wish for his nephew's

assistance on the journey; and it be, therefore, fix for the end of

James's second week.  no one call to take leave, except the Curate

and good Mr. Henderson, who show Clara much warm, kind feeling, and

praise she to her brother.



she beg James to walk with she for a farewell visit to her

grandmother's other old friend.  Great be her enjoyment of this

expedition; she say she have not have a walk worth have since she be

at Aix-la-Chapelle, and liberty and companionship compensate for all

the heat and dust in the dreary tract, full of uncomfortable

shabby-genteel abode, and an unpromising population.



'one cannot regret such a tenantry,' say Clara.



'poor creature!' say James.  'I wonder into whose hand they will

fall.  your heart may be free, Clara; you have follow the clear path

of duty; but it be a painful thought for I, that to strive to amend

these fester evil, cause very likely by my grandfather's

speculation, might have be my appoint task.  I should not have have

far to seek for occupation.  when I be talk to the curate

yesterday, my heart smite I to think what I might have do to help

he.'



'it would all have be over now.'



'it ought not.  Nay, perhaps, my presence might have leave my uncle free

to attend to his own concern.'



'I really believe you be go to regret the place!'



'after all, Clara, I be a Dynevor before my uncle come home.  it might

have be my birthright.  but, as Isabel say, what we be now be far

more likely to be safe for the child.  I be bad enough as I be,

but what should I have be as a pampered heir!  let it go.'



'yes, let it go,' say Clara; 'it have be little but pain to I.  we

shall teach my poor uncle that home love be well than old family

estate.  I almost wish he may recover nothing in Peru, that he may

learn that you receive he for his own sake.'



'that be more than I can wish,' say James.  'a hundred or two a-year

would come in handily.  besides, I be afraid that Mary Ponsonby may be

suffer in this crash.'



'she seem to have take care of herself,' say Clara.  'she do not

write to I, and I be almost ready to believe her father at last.  I

could not have think it of she!'



'Isabel have always say it be the good thing that could happen to

Louis.'



'Isabel never have any notion of Louis.  I don't mean any offence, but

if she have know what he be make of, she would never have have you.'



'thank you, Clara!  I always think it an odd predilection, but no one

can now esteem Fitzjocelyn more highly than ahe do.'



'very likely; but if she think Louis can stand Mary's desert him--'



'it will be great pain, no doubt; but once over, he will be free.'



'it never will be over.'



'that be young-ladyism.'



'I never be a young lady, and I know what I mean.  Mary may not be all

he think she, and she may be dull enough to let her affection wear

out; but I do not believe he will ever look at any one again, as he do

after Mary on your wedding-day.'



'so you forbid he to be ever happy again!'



'not at all, only in that one way.  there be many other of be

happy.'



'that one way mean marriage.'



'I mean that sort of perfect marriage that, accord to the saying, be

make in heaven.  whether that could have be with Mary, I do not know

she well enough to guess; but I be convinced that he will always have

the same kind of memory of she that a man have of a first love, or first

wife.'



'it may have be a mistake to drive he into the attachment, which

Isabel think have be favour by absence, leave scope for

imagination; but I cannot give up the hope that his day of happiness

be yet to come.'



'nor do I give up Mary, yet,' say Clara.  'till she announce she

defection I shall not believe it, for it would be common honesty to

inform poor Louis, and in that she never be deficient.'



'it be not a plant that seem to thrive on the peruvian soil.'



'no; and I be dreadfully afraid for Tom Madison.  there be hint

about he in Mr. Ponsonby's letter, which make I very anxious; and

from what my uncle say, it seem that there be such an atmosphere of

gambling and trickery about his office, that he think it a matter of

course that no one should be really true and honest.'



'that would be a terrible affair indeed!  I don't know for which I

should be most concern, Louis or our poor little Charlotte.  but

after all, Clara, we have know too many falsehood come across the

Atlantic, to concern ourselves about anything without good reason.'



so they talk, enjoy the leisure the walk give they for

conversation, and then pay the painful visit, when Clara try in

vain to make it understand by the poor old lady that she be go

away, and that James be her brother.  they feel thankful that such

decay have be spare their grandmother, and Clara sigh to think that

her uncle might be on the brink of a like loss of faculty, and then

feel herself more than ever bind to he.



on the way home they go together to the church, and ponder over the

tomb of their ancestry,--ranging from the grim, deface old knight,

through the polished brass, the kneeling courtier, and the dishevel

Grief embrace an urn, down to the mural arch enshrine the dear

revere name of Catharine, daughter of Roland, and wife of James Frost

Dynevor, the last of her line whose bone would rest there.  her grave

have truly be the sole possession that her son's labour have secure

for she; that grave be the only spot at Cheveleigh that claim a pang

from Clara's heart.  she stand beside it with deep, fond, cling love

and reverence, but with no painful recollection to come between she

and that fair, bright vision of happy old age.  alas! for the memory

that her brother have sow to spring up round he now!



apart from all these viper of his own creating, James after all feel

more in the cession of Cheveleigh than do his sister.  these be day

of change and of feudal feeling wear out; but James, long as he have

pretend to scorn 'be sentimental about his forefather,' be

strongly susceptible of such impression; and he be painfully

conscious of be disinherit.  he might have feel thus, without any

restoration or loss, as the mere effect of visit his birthright as a

stranger; but, as he receive all humbly instead of proudly, the

feeling do he no harm.  it soften he into sympathy with his uncle,

and tardy appreciation of his single-minded devotion to the estate,

which he have win not for himself, but for other, only to see it first

ungratefully reject, and then snatch away.  then, with a thrill of

humiliation at his own unworthiness, come the earnest prayer that it

might yet be vouchsafe to he to tend the exhausted body, and train

the contract mind to dwell on that inheritance whence there could be

no cast out.



Poor Oliver be fretful and restless, insist on be bring down

to his study to watch over the packing of his paper, and miserable at

be unable to arrange they himself.  even the tender pity for he

could not prevent he from be an exceed trial; and James could

hardly yet have endure it, but for pleasure and interest in watch

his sister's lively good-humour, saucy and determine when the old man

be unreasonable, and caressing and affectionate, when he be violent

in his impotence; never seem to hear, see, or regard anything unkind

or unpleasant; and absolutely pleased and gratify when her uncle, in

his petulance, sometimes ungraciously reject her service in favour

of those of 'Roland,' who, he take it for grant, must, as a man, have

more sense.  it would sometimes cross James, how would Isabel and the

child fare with this ill-humour; but he have much confidence in his

wife's sweet calm temper, and more in the obvious duty; and, on the

whole, he believe it be well not to think about it.



the suffering that the surrender cost Oliver be only show in this

specie of petty fractiousness, until the last morning, when his nephew

be help he across the hall, and Clara close at his side, he make

they stand still beside one of the pillar, and groan as he say,

'here I wait for the carriage last time!  here I promise to get it

back again!'



'I wish every one keep promise as you do,' say James, look about

for something cheerful to say.



'I have hope then,' say Oliver; and well might he feel the contrast

between the youth, with such hope, energy, and determination mighty

within he, and the broken and disappointed man.



'Hope yet, and well hope!' James could not help say.



'not while there's such a rascal in the office at Lima,' cry Oliver,

testily.



'oh! Uncle Oliver, he do not mean that!' exclaim Clara.



Mr. Dynevor grumble something about parson, which neither of they

choose to hear; and Clara cut it short by say, 'after all, Uncle

Oliver, you have do it all!  dear grandmamma come back and be happy

here, and that be all that signify.  you never want it for

yourself, you know, and my dear father be not here to have it.  and

for you, what could you have have more than your nephew and niece to--to

try to be like your child!  and haven't you rather have they without

purchase than with?'  and as she see he smile in answer to her bright

caress, she add merrily, 'there's nothing else to pity but the fir

tree and gold fish; and as they have do very happily before without

the Pendragon reign, I dare any they will again; so I cann't be very

sorry for they!'



this be Clara's farewell to her greatness, and cheerily she enliven

her uncle all the way to London, and try to solace he after the

interview that he insist on with various man of business, and which

do not tend to make he strong in health or spirit through the next

day's journey.



the engine whistle its arrive shriek at Northwold.  Happy Clara!

what be the summer rain to she?  every house, every passenger, be

token of home; and the damp rain-mottle face of the Terrace, look

like a child that have be cry, be more welcome to her long eye

than ever have be lake or mountain.



Isabel and little Catharine stand on the step; but as Mr. Dynevor be

lift out, the little girl shrink out of sight with a childish awe of

infirmity.  the dining-room have be make a very comfortable

sit-room for he, and till he be settle there, nothing else could

be attend to; but he be so much fatigued, that it be find well to

leave he entirely to Jane; and Clara, after a few moment, follow

her brother from the room.



as she shut the door, she stand for some second unobserve, and

unwilling to interfere with the scene before she.  Halfway upstairs,

James have be pull down to sit on the step, surround by his

delighted flock.  the baby be in his arm, flourish her hand as he

dance she; Kitty, from above, have clasp tightly round his neck,

chatter and kiss with breathless velocity; one twin in front be

drum on his knee, and shriek in accordance with every shout of

the baby; and below, lean on the baluster, stand their mother's

graceful figure, look up at they with a lovely smile face of

perfect gladness.  she be the first to perceive Clara; and, with a

pretty gesture to be silent, she point to the stand of the Wedgewood

jar, under which sit the other little maid, her two fat arm clasp

tight round her papa's umbrella, and the ivory handle indent her

rosy cheek, as she fondle it in silent transport.



'my little salome,' whisper Isabel, squeeze Clara's hand, 'our

quiet one.  she could not sleep for expect papa, and now she be in a

fit of shy delight; she cann't shout with the other; she can only nurse

his umbrella.'



just then James make a desperate demonstration, amid peal of laughter

from his daughter.  'we be stop the way!  get out, you unruly

monster!  let go, Kitty--mercy; I shall kick!  Mamma, catch this

ball;' make a feint of toss the crowing fanny at she.



Assuredly, think Clara, pity be waste; there be not one too many.

and then begin the happy exulting introduction, and a laugh at little

Mercy, who stand blank and open-mouthed, gaze up and up her tall

aunt, as if there be no come to the top of she.  Clara sit down on

the stair, to bring her face to a level, and strike up a friendship

with she on the spot, while James lilt up his little Salome, her joy

still too deep and reserve for manifestation; only without a word she

nestle close to he, lay her head on his shoulder, and close her

eye, as if languid with excess of rapture--a pretty contrast to her

sister's frantic delight, which presently alarm James lest it should

disturb his uncle, and he call they up-stair.



but Clara must first run to the House Beautiful, and little mercy must

need come to show she the way, and trot up before she,

consequentially announce, 'Aunt Cara.'  Miss Faithfull alone be

present; and, without speak, Clara drop on the ground, lay she

head on her dear old friend's lap, and little Mercy exclaim, in

wonder alarm, 'Aunt Cara naughty--Aunt Cara cry!'



'my darling,' say Miss Faithfull, as she kiss Clara's brow and

stroke her long flaxen hair, 'you have go through a great deal. we

must try to make you happy in your poor old home.'



'oh, no! oh, no!  it be happiness!  oh! such happiness! but I don't

know what to do with it, and I want granny!'



she be almost like little Salome; the flood of bliss in return

home, join with the missing of the one dear welcome, have come on

she so suddenly that she be almost stifle, till she have be calm

and soothe by the brief interval of quiet with her dear old friend.

she return to No. 5, there to find that her uncle be go to bed,

and Charlotte, pink and beautiful with delight, be run about in

attendance on Jane.  she go up straight to her own little room, which

have be set out exactly as in former time, so that she could feel as

if she have be not a day absent; and she lose not a moment in add

to it all the other little treasure which make it fully like her own.

she look out at the Ormersfield tree, and smile to think how well

Louis's advice have turn out; and then she sigh, in the fear that it

might yet be her duty to leave home.  if her uncle could live without

she, she must tear herself away, and work for his maintenance.



however, for the present, she might enjoy to the utmost, and she

proceed to the little parlour, which, to her extreme surprise, she

found only occupy by the four child--Kitty hold the young

upon her foot, till, at the new apparition, Fanny suddenly seat

herself for the convenience of stare.



'be you all alone here!' exclaim Clara.



'I be take care of the little one,' reply Kitty, with dignity.



'where's mamma!'



'she be go down to get tea.  Papa be go to the Union; but we do not

mean to wait for he,' answer the little personage, with an air

capable, the more droll because she be on the small scale, of much

less substance than the round fat twin, and indeed chiefly

distinguishable from they by her slender neat shape; for the face be

at first sight all alike, brown, small-feature, with large dark eye,

and dark curly hair--mercy, with the large and most impetuous eye,

and Salome with a dreamy look, more like her mother.  Fanny be in a

different style, and much pretty; but her contemplation end in

alarm and inclination to cry, whereupon Kitty embrace she, and

console she like a most efficient guardian; then see mercy become

rather rude in her familiarity with her aunt, hold up her small

forefinger, and call out gravely, 'mercy, recollect yourself!'



wonder would never cease!  here be Isabel come up with the tea-tray

in her own hand!



'my dear, do you always do that?'



'no, only when Charlotte be busy; and,' as she pick up the baby, 'now

Kitty may bring the rest.'



so, in various little journey, the miniature woman's curly head arise

above the loaf, and the butter-dish, and even the milk-jug, hold

without spilling; while Isabel would have set out the tea-thing with

one hand, if Clara have not do it for she; and the workhouse girl

finally appear with the kettle.



be this the same Isabel whom Clara last remember with her baby in

her lap, beautiful and almost as inanimate as a statue?  there be

scarcely more change from the long-frocked infant to the bustling

important sprite, than from that fair piece of still life to the active

house-mother.  unruffled grace be innate; every movement have a lofty,

placid deliberation and simplicity, that make she like a disguised

princess; and though her beauty be a little worn, what it have lose in

youth be far more than compensate by sweetness and animation.  the

pensive cast remain, but the dreaminess have sober into thought and

true hope.  her dress be an old handsome silk, fray and worn, but so

become to she, that the fading be unnoticed in the delicate neatness

of the accompaniment.  and the dear old room!  it look like a

cheerful habitation; but Clara's almost instant inquiry be for the

porcelain Arcadians, and could not think it quite as tidy and orderly

as it use to be in old time, when she be the only fairy Disorder.

'however, I'll see to that,' quoth she to herself.  and she give

herself up to the happy tea-drinking, when James be welcome by

another tumult, and be pin down by Kitty and Salome on either

side--mamma make tea in spite of Fanny on her lap--mercy adhere to

the new-comer--the eager conversation--Kitty thrust in her little

oar, and be hush by mamma--the grand final game at romp, end

with Isabel carry off her little victim, one by one, to bed; and

James take the tea-tray down stair.  Clara follow with other part

of the equipage, and then both stand together warm themselves, and

gossip over the dear old kitchen fire, till Isabel come down and

find they there. and then, before any of the grand news be discuss,

all the infant marvel of the last fortnight have to be detail; and

the young parent require Clara's opinion whether they be spoil

Kitty.



next, Clara find her way to the cupboard, bring the shepherd and

shepherdess to light, look they well over, and satisfy herself that

there be not one scar or wound on either--nay, it be not absolutely

certain that she do not kiss the damsel's delicate pink cheek--set

they up on the mantelpiece, promise to keep they in order, and stand

gaze at they till James accuse she of regard they as her penate!



'why, Jem!' she say, turn on he, 'you be a mere recreant if you

can feel it like home without they!'



'I have other porcelain figure to depend on for a home!' say James.



'take care, James!' say his wife, with the fond sadness of one whose

cup overflow with happiness; 'Clara's shepherdess may look fragile,

but she have keep her youth and see many a generation pass by of such

as you depend on!'



'she once be turn out of Cheveleigh, too, and have bear it as easily

as Clara,' say James, smile.  'I suspect her bad danger be from

Fanny.  there's a lady who, I warn you, can never withstand Fanny!'



Isabel take up her own defence, and they laugh on.  Poor Uncle

Oliver! could he but have know how little all this have to do with

Cheveleigh!









CHAPTER XX.



WESTERN TIDINGS.



  o lady! worthy of earth's proud throne!

  nor less, by excellence of nature, fit

  Beside an unambitious hearth to sit

  domestic queen, where grandeur be unknown--

  Queen and handmaid lowly.

                             WORDSWORTH.





a house in the Terrace be let, and the rent be welcome; and shortly

after, Clara have an affectionate letter from her old school-enemy, Miss

Salter, beg she to come as governess to her little brother,

promise that she should be treat like one of the family, and

offer a large salary.



Clara be much afraid that it be her duty to accept the proposal,

since her uncle seem very fairly content, and be grow very fond

of 'Roland,' and the payment would be so great an assistance, but James

and Isabel be strongly averse to it; and her conscience be satisfy

by Miss Mercy Faithfull's discovery of a family at the Baths in search

of a daily governess.



Miss Frost be not a person to be reject, and in another week she

find herself set out to breakfast with a girl and three boy,

infuse Latin, French, and geography all the forenoon, dine with

they, sometimes walk with they, and then return to the merry

evening of Dynevor Terrace.



Mr. Dynevor endure the step pretty well.  she have ascendancy enough

over he always to take her own way, and he be still buoy up by the

hope of recover enough to rectify his affair in Peru.  he be

well, though his right side remain paralysed, and Mr. Walby see

little chance of restoration.  rise late, and breakfast slowly,

the newspaper and visit from James wile away the morning.  he

prefer take his meal alone; and after dinner be wheel out in a

chair on fine day.  Clara come to he as soon as her day's work be

over; and, when he be well enough to bear it, the whole party be

with he from the child's bedtime till his own.  altogether, the

invalid-life pass off pretty well.  he do not dislike the child,

and Kitty like anything that need to be wait on.  he take Clara's

service as a right, but be a little afraid of 'Mrs. Dynevor,' and

highly flatter by any attention from she; and with James his mood

be exceedingly variable, and often very try, but, in general, very

well endure.



peruvian mail be anticipate in the family with a feeling most akin

to dread.  the notice of a vessel come in be the signal for

growling at everything, from the post-office down to his dinner; and

the arrival of letter make thing only worse.  as Clara say, the

galleon be take by the pirate; the Equatorial Company seem to be

do the work of Caleb Balderston's thunderstorm, and to be bear

the blame of a deficit such as Oliver could not charge on it. the whole

statement be back by Mr. Ponsonby, whose short note speak of

indisposition make he more indebted than ever to the exertion of

Robson.  this last be go to Guayaquil to attempt to clear up the

account of the Equatorial Company, leave the office at Lima in the

charge of Madison and the new clerk, Ford; and Mr. Dynevor be promise

something decisive and satisfactory on his return.  of Mary there be

no mention, except what might be infer in a postscript:--'Ward be

expect in a few week.'



Mr. Dynevor be oblige to resign himself; and so exceedingly fractious

be he, that Clara have be feel quite dispirit, when her brother

call she to tell she joyously that Lord Ormersfield and Louis be

come home, and would call in on their way the next evening.  those

wretched child must not take she for a walk.



nevertheless, the wretched child do want to walk, and Clara could

not get home till half-an-hour after she know the train must have come

in; and she find the visitor in her uncle's room.  Louis come forward

to the door to meet she, and shake her hand with all his heart, say,

under his breath,



'I congratulate you!'



'thank you!' she say, in the same hearty tone.



'and now, look at he! look at my father!  have not we make a good

piece of work of keep he abroad all the winter?  do not he look

as well as ever he do in his life?'



this be rather strong, for Lord Ormersfield be somewhat grey, and a

little bent; but he have resume all his look of health and vigour, and

be a great contrast to his young, but far older-look cousin.  he

welcome Clara with his tone of courteous respect, and smile at his

son's exultation, say, Fitzjocelyn deserve all the credit, for he

himself have never think to be so patch up again, and poor Oliver

be evidently derive as much encouragement as if rheumatism have be

paralysis.



'I must look in at the House Beautiful,' say Louis, presently. 'Clara,

I cann't lose your company.  willn't you come with I?'



of course she come; and she divine why, instead of at once enter

the next house, he take a turn along the terrace, and, after a pause,

ask, 'Clara, when do you last hear from Lima?'



'not for a long time.  I suppose she be take up by her father's

illness.'



he pause, collect himself, and ask again, 'have you hear nothing

from your uncle?'



'yes,' say Clara, sadly, 'but Louis,' she add, with a lively tone,

'what do not come from herself, I would not believe.'



'I do not.'



'that's right, don't be vex when it may be nothing.'



'no; if she have find any one more worthy of she, she would not

hesitate in make I aware of it.  I ought to be satisfied, if she

do what be good for her own happiness.  Miss Ponsonby believe that

this be a man of sterling worth, probably suit she well than I

might have do.  she be a good deal drive on by circumstance

before, and, perhaps, it be all a mistake on her side.'  and he try

to smile.



Clara exclaim that 'Mary could not have be all he have believe,

if--'



'no,' he say, 'she be all, and more than all.  I comprehend she well

now, and could have show she that I do.  she have be the blessing of

my life so far, and her influence always will be so.  I shall always be

grateful to she, be the rest as it may, and I mean to live on hope to

the last.  now for the good old lady.  really, Clara, the old Dynevor

Terrace atmosphere have come back, and there seem to be the same sort

of rest and cheer in come into these old iron gate!  after all,

Isabel be grow almost worthy to be call Mrs. Frost.'  and in this

manner he talk on, up to the very door of the House Beautiful, as if

to cheat himself out of despondency.



'that be a very pretty meeting,' say Isabel to her husband, when no

witness be present but little Fanny.



'what, between his lordship and my uncle?'



'you know well.'



'my dear, your mother once try match-making for Fitzjocelyn.  be

warn by her example.'



'I be do no such thing.  I be only observe what every one see.'



'don't be so common-place.'



'that's all disdain--you must condescend.  I have be hear from Mr.

Dynevor of the excellent offer that Clara refuse.'



'do you think Uncle Oliver and Clara agree as to excellence?'



'still,' continue Isabel, 'consider how uncomfortable she be, it

do not seem improbable that she would have marry, unless some

attachment have steel her heart and raise her standard.  I know she

be unconscious, but it be Fitzjocelyn who form she.'



'he have be a well brother to she than I have be; but look only at

their perfect ease.'



'now it be my belief that they be make for each other, and can

venture to find it out, since she be no long an heiress, and he be

free from his peruvian entanglement.'



'fanny, do you hear what a scheme mamma you have?  I hope she will

have use it all upon Sir Hubert before you come out as the beauty of

the terrace!'



'well, I mean to sound Clara.'



'you have well leave it alone.'



'do you forbid I?'



'why, no, for I don't think you have the face to say anything that

would distress she, or disturb the friendship which have be her

great benefit.'



'thank you.  all I intend be, that if it should be as I suppose, the

poor thing should not miss come to an understanding for want--'



'of a Christmas-tree,' say James, laugh.  'you may have your own

way.  I have too much confidence in your discretion and in theirs to

imagine that you will produce the least effect.'



Isabel's imagination be busily at work, and she be in haste to make

use of her husband's permission; but it be so difficult to see Clara

alone, that some day pass before the two sister be leave together

in the sitting-room, while James be write a letter for his uncle.

Isabel's courage begin to waver, but she venture a commencement.



'Mr. Dynevor entertain I with fine story of your conquest, Clara.'



Clara laugh, blush, and answer bluntly, 'what a bother it be!'



'you be very hard-hearted.'



'you ought to remember the trouble of young ladyhood enough not to

wonder.'



'I never let thing run to that length; but then I have no fortune. but

seriously, Clara, be all these people objectionable?'



'do you think one could marry any man, only because he be not

objectionable?  there be no harm in one or two; but I be not go to

have anything to say to they.'



'really, Clara, you make I curious.  have you make any resolution?'



'I know only two man whom I could have trust to fulfil my

condition,' say Clara.



'Conditions?'



'of course! that if Cheveleigh be to belong to any of we, it should be

to the rightful heir.'



'my dear, noble Clara! be that what keep you from think of

marriage?'



'ben't it a fine thing to have such a test?  not that I ever come to

try it.  Simple no answer my purpose.  I meet no one who tempt I

to make the experiment.'



'two man!' say Isabel, 'if you have say one, it would have be

marked.'



'Jem and Louis, of course,' say Clara.



'oh! that be as good as say one.'



'as good as say none,' say Clara, with emphasis.



'there may be different opinion on that point,' return Isabel, not

dare to lift her eye from her work, though long to study Clara's

face, and feel herself crimson.



'extremely unfounded opinion, and rather--'



'rather what?'



'Impertinent, I be go to say, beg your pardon, dear Isabel.'



'Nay, I think it be I who should beg your, Clara.'



'no, no,' say Clara, laughing, but speak gravely immediately after,

'looker-on do not always see most of the game.  I have always know

his mind so well that I could never possibly have fall into any such

nonsense.  I respect he far too much.'



Isabel feel as if she must hazard a few word more--'Can you guess what

he will do if Mr. Ponsonby's report prove true?'



'I do not mean to anticipate misfortune,' say Clara.



Isabel could say no more; and when Clara next speak, it be to ask for

another of James's wristband to stitch.  then Isabel venture to peep

at her face, and see it quite calm, and not at all rosy; if it have

be, the colour be go.



thus it be, and there be happily many such friendship exist as

that between Louis and Clara.  many a woman have see the man whom she

might have marry, and yet have not be make miserable.  if there be

neither vanity nor weak self-contemplation on her side, nor trifle on

his part, nor unwise suggestion force on she by spectator, the

honest, genuine affection need never become passion.  if intimacy be

sometimes dangerous, it be because vanity, folly, and mistake be too

frequent; but in spite of all these, where woman be truly refine, and

exalt into companion and friend, there have be much more happy,

frank intercourse and real friendship than either the romantic or the

sagacious would readily allow.  the spark be never light, there be no

consciousness, no repining, and all be well.



fresh despatch from Lima arrive; and after a day, when Oliver have

be so busy overlook the statement from Guayaquil that he would not

even take his usual airing, he receive Clara with order to write and

secure his passage by the next packet for Callao.



'dear uncle, you would never dream of it!  you could not bear the

journey!' she cry, aghast.



'it would do I good. do not try to cross I, Clara.  no one else can

deal with this pack of rascal.  your brother have not be breed to it,

and be a parson besides, and there's not a soul that I can trust. I'll

go.  what! d'ye think I can live on he and on you, when there be a

competence of my own out there, embezzle among those ragamuffin?'



'I be sure we have much rather--'



'no stuff and nonsense.  here be Roland with four child

already--very likely to have a dozen more.  if you and he be fool,

I'm not, and I willn't take the bread out of their mouth.  I'll leave my

will behind, bequeath whatever I may get out of the fire evenly

between you two, as the only way to content you; and if I never turn up

again, why you're rid of the old man.'



'very well, uncle, I shall take my own passage at the same time.'



'you don't know what you be talk of.  you be a silly child, and

your brother would be a bad if he let you go.'



'if Jem let you go, he will let I.  he shall let I.  don't you know

that you be never to have I off your hand, uncle?  no, no, I shall

stick to you like a burr.  you may go up to the tip-top of Chimborazo

if you please, but you'll not shake I off.'



it be her fix purpose to accompany he, and she be not solicitous

to dissuade he from go, for she could be avaricious for James's

child, and have a decide wish for justice on the guilty party; and,

besides, Clara have a private vision of her own, which make her dance in

her little room.  Mary have write in her father's stead--there be not

a word of Mr. Ward--indeed, Mr. Ponsonby be evidently so ill that his

daughter could think of nothing else.  might not Clara come in time to

clear up any misunderstanding--convince Mr. Ponsonby--describe Louis's

single-hearted constancy during all these five year, and bring Mary

home to he in triumph?  she could have laugh aloud with delight at

the possibility; and when the other alternative occur to she, she

knit her brow with childish vehemence, as she promise Miss Mary that

she would never be her bridesmaid.



presently she hear Fitzjocelyn's voice in the parlour, and, go

down, find he in consultation over a letter which Charlotte have

bring to her master.  it be so well write and express, that

Louis turn to the signature before he could quite believe that it be

from his old pupil.  Tom write to communicate his perplexity at the

detection of the fraud practise on his employer.  he have lately be

employ in the office at Lima, where much have excite his suspicion;

and, finally, from having 'open a letter address by mistake to the

firm, but destine for an individual, he have discover that large

sum, suppose to be require by the work, or lose in the Equatorial

failure, have be, in fact, invest in America in the name of that

party.'  the secret be a grievous burthen.  Mr. Ponsonby be far too

ill to be inform; besides that, he should only bring suspicion on

himself; and Miss Ponsonby be so much occupy as to be almost equally

inaccessible.  Tom have likewise reason to believe that his own

movement be watch, and that any attempt to communicate with she or

her father would be baffle; and, above all, he could not endure

himself to act the spy and informer. he only wish that, if possible,

without mention name, Charlotte could give a hint that Mr. Dynevor

must not implicitly trust to all he hear.



James be inclined to suppress such vague information, which he think

would only render his uncle more restless and wretched in his

helplessness, and be only question whether secrecy would not amount

to deceit.



'the obvious thing be for I to go to Peru,' say Louis.



'my uncle and I be intend to go,' say Clara.



'how many more of you?' exclaim James.



     'I would not change my native land

      for rich Peru and all her gold;'



chant little Kitty from the corner, where she be build house for

the 'little one.'



'extremely to the purpose,' say Louis, laugh.  'follow her example,

Clara.  make your uncle appoint I his plenipotentiary, and I will try

what I can to find out what these rogue be about.'



'be you in earnest?'



'never more so in my life.'



James beckon he to the window, and show he a sentence where Tom

say that the good chance for the firm be in Miss Ponsonby's marriage

with Mr. Ward, but that engagement be not yet declare on account of

her father's illness.



'the very reason,' say Louis, 'I cannot go on in this way.  I must

know the truth.'



'and your father?'



'it would be much well for he that the thing be settle.  he will

miss I less during the session, when he be in London with all his old

friend about he.  it would not take long, go by the Isthmus.  I'll

ride back at once, and see how he bear the notion. say nothing to Mr.

Dynevor till you hear from I; but I think he will consent.  he will

not endure that she should be leave unprotected; her father perhaps

die, leave to the mercy of these rascal.'



'and forgive I, Louis, if you find she not need you!'



'if she be happy, I should honour the man who make she so.  at least, I

might be of use to you.  I should see after poor Madison.  I have send

he to the buccaneer indeed!  good-bye!  I cannot rest till I see how

my father take it!'



it be long since Louis have be under an excess of impetuosity; but he

ride home as fast as he have ride to Northwold to canvass for James,

and have not long be at Ormersfield before his proposition be lay

before his father.



it be no small thing to ask of the Earl, necessary as his son have

become to he; and the project at first appear to he senseless. he

think Mary have not show herself sufficiently sensible of his son's

merit to deserve so much trouble; and if she be engage to Mr. Ward,

Fitzjocelyn would find himself in an unpleasant and undignified

position.  besides, there be the ensue session of Parliament!  no!

Oliver must send out some trustworthy man of business, with full power.



Louis only answer, that of course it depend entirely on his

father's consent; and by-and-by his submission begin to work.  Lord

Ormersfield could not refuse he anything, and take care, on part

for the night, to observe that the point be not settle, only under

consideration.



and consideration be more favourable than might have be expect.

the Earl be grow anxious to see his son marry, and of that there

be no hope till his mind should be settle with regard to Mary.  it

would be more for his peace to extinguish the hope, if it be never to

be fulfil.  moreover, the image of Mary have awaken the Earl's own

fatherly fondness for she, and his desire to rescue she from she

wretched home.  even Mr. Ponsonby could hardly withstand Louis in

person, he think, and must be touch by so many year of constancy.

the rest might be only a misunderstanding which would be clear up by

a personal interview.  add to this, Lord Ormersfield know that Clara

would not let her uncle go alone, and do not think it fit to see she

go out alone with an infirm paralytic; James could not leave his wife

or his chaplaincy, and the affair be unsuited to his profession; a

mere accountant would not carry sufficient authority, nor gain

Madison's confidence; in fact, Fitzjocelyn, and no other, be the

trustworthy man of business; and so his lordship allow when Louis

venture to recur to the subject the next morning, and urge some of his

argument.



the bright clearing of Louis's face speak his thank, and he begin at

once to detail his plan for his father's comfort, Lord Ormersfield

listening as if pleased by his solicitude, though care for little

until the light of his eye should return.



'the next point be that you should give I a testimonial that I _be_ a

trustworthy man of business.'



'I will ride into Northwold with you, and talk it over with Oliver.'



here lie the knotty point; but the last five year have considerably

cultivate Fitzjocelyn's natural aptitude for figure, by his attention

to statistic, his own farming-book, and the complicated account of

the Ormersfield estate,--so that both his father and Richardson could

testify to his be an excellent man of business; and his coolness,

and mildness of temper, make he well calculate to deal with a rogue

than a more hasty man would have be.



they find, on arrive, that James have be talk to Mr. Walby, who

pronounce that the expedition to Lima would be mere madness for Mr.

Dynevor, since application to business would assuredly cause another

attack, and even the calculation of the previous day have make he very

unwell, and so petulant and snappish, that he could be pleased with

nothing, and treat as mere insult the proposal that he should entrust

his affair to 'such a lad.'



even James hesitate to influence he to accept the offer.  'I

scruple,' he say, draw the Earl aside, 'because I think you have a

particular objection to Fitzjocelyn's be throw in the way of

speculation.  I think you dread the fascination.'



'thank you, James; I once do so,' say the Earl.  'I use to believe

it a family mania; I only keep it down in myself by strong resolution,

in the very sight of the consequence, but I can trust Fitzjocelyn.  he

be too indifferent to everything apart from duty to be catch by

flattering project, and you may fully confide in his right judgment.

I believe it be the absence of selfishness or conceit that make he so

clear-sighted.'



'what a change! what a testimony!' triumphantly think James.  it

might be partial, but he be not the man to believe so.



that day be one of defeat; but on the following, a note from James

advise Fitzjocelyn to come and try his fortune again; Mr. Dynevor

would give no one any rest till he have see he.



Thereupon Louis be closet with the old merchant, who watch he

keenly, and note every question or remark he make on the account;

then twinkle his eye with satisfaction as he hit more than one of the

very blot over which Oliver have already perplex himself.  so

clear-headed and accurate do he show himself, that he soon perceive

that Mr. Dynevor look at he as a good clerk throw away; and he

finally obtain from he full power to act, to bring the villain to

condign punishment, and even, if possible, to dispose of his share in

the firm.



Miss Ponsonby be much relieved to learn that Lord Fitzjocelyn be

go out, though fear that he might meet with disappointment; but,

at least, her brother would be undeceive as to the traitor in whom he

be confide.  no letter be to announce Louis's intention, lest

the enemy should take warning; but he carry several with he, to be

give or not, accord to the state of affair; and when, on his way

through London, he go to receive Miss Ponsonby's commission, she

give he a large packet, address to Mary.



'be I to give she this at all event!' he ask, falter.



'it would serve she right.'



'then I should not give it to she.  pray write another, for she do

not deserve to be wound, however she may have decide.'



'I do not know how I shall ever forgive she,' sigh Aunt Melicent.



'People be never so unforgiving as when they have nothing to forgive.'



'ah! Lord Fitzjocelyn, that be not your case.  this might have be far

otherwise, have I not misjudge you at first.'



'do not believe so.  it would have be hard to think I more foolish

than I be.  this probation have be the good schooling for I; and,

let it end as it may, I shall be thankful for what have be.'



and in this spirit do he sail, and many an anxious thought follow

he, no heart beat high than do that of little Charlotte, who

found a great many hope on the crisis that his come would produce.

seven year be a terrible time to have be engage, and the little

workhouse girl think she get almost as old as Mrs. Beckett.  she

wonder whether Tom think so too!  she do not want to think about

Martha's first cousin, who be engage for thirty-two year to a

journeyman tailor, and when they marry at last, they be both so

cross that she go out to service again at the end of a month.

Charlotte set up all her cap with Tom's favourite colour, and 'turn

Angelina' twenty time a-day.



then come the well-know peruvian letter, and a thin one for

Charlotte.  without recollect that it must have cross Lord

Fitzjocelyn on the road, she tear it open the instant she have carry

in the parlour letter.  alas! poor Charlotte!





'I write to you for the last time, lest you should consider yourself

any long bind by the engagement which must long have be

distasteful.  when I say that Mr. Ford have for some month be my

colleague, you will know to what I allude, without my express any

far.  I be already embark for the U. S.  my enemy have

succeed in destroy my character and blight my hope.  I be at

present a fugitive from the hand of so-call justice; but I could

have bear all with a cheerful heart if you have not play I false.

you will never hear more of one who love you faithfully.



                                    'TH. MADISON.'





Poor Charlotte!  the wound be a great deal too deep for her usual

childish tear, or even for a single word.  she stand still, cold, and

almost unconscious till she hear a step, then she put the cruel letter

away in her bosom, and go about her work as usual.



they think she look very pale, and Jane now and then reproach

she with eat no more than a sparrow, and tell she she be get

into a dwining way; but she make no answer, except that she 'could do

her work.'  at last, one Sunday evening, when she have be leave alone

with the child, her mistress find she sit at the foot of her

bed, among the sleep little one, weep bitterly but silently.

Isabel's kindness at length open her heart, and she put the letter

into her hand.  poor little thing, it be very meekly bear: 'please

don't tell no one, ma'am,' she say; 'I couldn't hear he blame!'



'but what do he mean?  he must be under some terrible error.  who be

this Ford?'



'it be Delaford, ma'am, I make no doubt, though however he could have

get there!  and, oh dear I! if I have only tell poor Tom the whole,

that I be a silly girl, and like his flattery now and then, but

constant in my heart I always be!'



Isabel could not but suppose that Delaford, if it be he, might have

exaggerated poor Charlotte's little flirtation; but there be small

comfort here, since contradiction be impossible.  the U. S., over

which the poor child have puzzle in vain, be no field in which to

follow he up--he have not even date his letter; and it be a very,

very faint hope that Lord Fitzjocelyn might trace he out, especially

as he have evidently flee in disgrace; and poor Charlotte sob

bitterly over his trouble, as well as her own.



she be well after she have tell her mistress, though still she shrink

from any other sympathy.  even Jane's pity would have be too much for

she, and her tender nature be afraid of the tongue that would have

discuss her grief.  perhaps the high-toned nature of Isabel be the

very good to be bring into contact with the poor girl's spirit, which

be of the same order, and many an evening do Isabel sit in the

twilight, beside the child's bed, talk to she, or sometimes

read a few line to show she how other have suffer in the same

way.  'it be my own fault,' say poor Charlotte; 'it all come of my

like to be treat like one above the common, and it serve I right.

yes, ma'am, that be a beautiful text you show I last night, I

think of it all day, and I'll try to believe that good will come out

of it.  I be sure you be very good to let I love the child!  I'm

certain sure Miss Salome know that I'm in trouble, for she never fail

to run and kiss I the minute she come in sight; and she'll sit so

quiet in my lap, the little dear, and look at I as much as to say,

'Charlotte, I wish I could comfort you.'  but it be all my own fault,

ma'am, and I think I could feel as if I be punish right, so I know

poor Tom be happy.'



'alas!' think Isabel, after hear Charlotte's reminiscence; 'how

close I have live to a world of which I be in utter ignorance!  how

little do we guess that, by the careless ease and inattention of our

household, we be carry about a firebrand, endanger not only

poor Walter, but do fearful harm wherever we go!'









CHAPTER XXI.



STEPPING WESTWARD.



   on Darien's sand and deadly dew.

                        Rokeby.





enterprise and speed both alike direct Fitzjocelyn's course across

the Isthmus of Panama, which in 1853 have newly become practicable for

adventurous traveller.  a canal conduct he as far as Cruces, after

which he have to push on through wild forest and swamp, under the escort

of the muleteer who take charge of the various traveller who have

arrive by the same packet.



it be a very novel and amusing journey, even in the very discomfort

and the strange character with whom he be throw, and more

discontent traveller use to declare that Don Luis, as he tell the

muleteer to call he, always seem to have the good success with the

surly hotel-keeper, though when he resign his acquisition to any

resolute grumbler, it use to be discover that he have be put up

with the bad share.



a place call Guallaval seem to be the most squalid and forlorn of

all the station--outside, an atmosphere of mosquito; inside, an

atmosphere of brandy and smoke, the master an ague-stricken Yankee, who

sit with his bare foot high against the wall, and only deign to jerk

with his head to show in what quarter be the drink and food, and to

'guess that stranger must sleep on the ground, for first-comer have

all the beds'--hammocks sling up in a barn, or unwholesome cupboard in

the wall.



at the dirty board sit several of the party first arrive, wash down

tough, stringy beef with brandy.  Louis be about to take his place

near a very black-bearded young man, who appear more civilized than

the rest, and who surprise he by at once make room for he, leave

the table with an air of courtesy; and when, in his halting Spanish, he

beg 'his grace' not to disturb himself, he be answer, in the same

tongue, 'I have finish.'



after the meal, such as it be, he wander out of the hut, to escape

the fume and the company within; but he be presently accost by the

same stranger, who, touch his slouch Panama hat, make he a speech

in Spanish, too long and fluent for his comprehension, at the same time

offer he a cigar.  he be civilly refuse, when, to his surprise,

the man interrupt he in good English.  'these swamp breed fever, to

a certainty.  a cigar be the only protection; and even then there be

nothing more dangerous than to be out at sunset.'



'thank you, I be much oblige,' say Louis, turn towards the hut.

'have you be long out here?'



'the first time on the Isthmus; but I know these sort of place. pray

go in, my Lord.'



the title and the accent startled Louis, and he exclaim, 'you must be

from the Northwold country?'



he draw back, and say bluntly, 'never mind I, only keep out of this

pestiferous air.'



but the abrupt surliness complete the recognition, and, seize his

hand, Louis cry, 'Tom! how be you?'  you have turn into a thorough

Spaniard, and take I in entirely.'



'only come in, my Lord; I would never have speak to you, but that I

could not see you catch your death.'



'I be come: but what's the matter?  why avoid I, when you be the

very man I most wish to see?'



'I'm do for,' say Tom.  'the fellow up there have saddle their

roguery on I, and I'm off to the States.  I--'



'what do you say?  there, I be come in.  be satisfied, Tom; I be come

out with a commission from Mr. Dynevor, to see what can be arrange.'



'that's right,' cry Tom, 'now poor Miss Ponsonby will have one

friend.'



'your letter to Charlotte bring I out--' begin Louis; but Madison

break in with an expression of dismay and self-reproach at see he

walk somewhat lame.



'it be only when I be tired, and not think of it,' say Louis; 'do

you know that old ash stick, Tom, my constant friend?  see, here be

the name of all the place I have see cut out on it.'



'I know it, and you, the moment you sit down by the table,' say Tom,

in a tone of the utmost feeling, as Louis take his arm.  'you be not

one to forget.'



'and yet you be go to pass I without make yourself know.'



'a disgraced man have no business to be know,' say Tom, low and

hoarsely.  'no, I wish none of they ever to hear my name again; and but

for the slip of the tongue that come so naturally, you should not, but

I be draw to you, and could not help it.  I be glad I have see you

once more, my Lord--'



he would have leave he at the entrance, but Louis hold he fast.



'you be the very man I depend on for unravel the business.  a man

cannot be disgrace by any one but himself, and that be not the case

with you, Tom.'



'no, thank Heaven,' say Tom, fervently; 'I've keep my honesty, if I

have lose all the rest.'



little more be need to bring Madison to a seat on a wooden bench

beside Fitzjocelyn, answer his anxious inquiry.  the first tiding

be a shock--Mr. Ponsonby be dead.  he have long be decline, and

the last thing Tom have hear from Lima be, that he be dead; but of

the daughter there be no intelligence; Tom have be too much occupy

with his own affair to know anything of she. Robson have return from

Guayaquil some week previously, and in the settlement of account

consequent on Mr. Ponsonby's death, Tom have demur give up all the

valuable property at the mine under his charge, until he should have

direct order from Mr. Dynevor or Miss Ponsonby.  a hot dispute ensue,

and Robson become aware that Tom be inform of his nefarious

practice, and have threaten he violently; but a few hour after he

have return, affect to have learn from the new clerk, Ford, that

Madison's peculation require to be wink at with equal forbearance,

and give he the alternative of share the spoil, or of be

denounce to the authority.  he take a night to consider; and, as

Louis start at hearing of any deliberation, he say, sadly, 'you

would not believe I, my Lord, but I have almost a mind.  they would

take away my character, any way; and what advantage be my honesty

without that? and as to hurt my employer, they would only take what

I do not; and such as that be think nothing of by very many.  I'd

get no faith in man nor woman leave, and I'd got nothing but suspicion

by my honesty; so why should I not give in to the way of the world, and

try if it would serve I.  but then, my Lord, it strike I that if I

have nothing else, I have still my God leave.'



Louis grasp his hand.



'yes, I'm thankful that Miss Ponsonby ask I to read to the Cornish

miner,' say Madison.  'one get soon heathenish in a heathenish

place; and but for that I don't believe I should ever have stand it

out.  but Joseph's word, 'how can I do this great wickedness, and sin

against God,' keep ring in my ear like a peal of bell, all night,

and by morning I send in a note to Mr. Robson, to say no to what he

propose.'



every other principle would have crack in such a conflict, and Louis

look up at Tom with intense admiration, while the young man speak on,

not conscious that it have be noble, but ashamed of own himself to

have be bring to a pass where mere integrity have be an effort.



he have go back at once to his mine, in some hope that the threat

might yet prove nothing but bluster; but he have scarcely arrive

there when an indian muleteer, to whom he have show some kindness,

bring he intelligence that la justida be in quest of he, but in

difficulty how to get up the mountain.  the poor Indians guide his

escape, conduct he down wonderful path only know to themselves,

hide he in strange sequester hut, and finally guide he safely

to Callao, where he have secretly embark on board an american vessel

bind for Panama.  Louis ask why he have flee, instead of take his

trial, and confute Robson; but he smile, and say, my Lord know

little of foreign justice; besides, Ford be ready to bear any witness

that Robson might put into his mouth;--and his face grow dark.  who be

this Ford?  he could not tell; Mr. Robson have pick he up a few

month back, when there be a want of a clerk; like love like, he

suppose, but it be no concern of his. would it be safe for he to

venture back to Peru, under Fitzjocelyn's protection, and assist he in

unmask the treacherous Robson!  to this he readily agree, catch

at the hope of establish his innocence; but declare that he should

then go at once to the States.--'What, not even go home to see

Charlotte?  I've get a letter for you, when I can get at it.'



Tom make no answer, and Fitzjocelyn fear that, in spite of all his

good quality, his fidelity in love have not equal his fidelity to

his employer.  he could not understand his protege during the few day

of their journey.  he be a great acquisition to his comfort, with his

knowledge of the language and people, and his affectionate deference.

at home, where all be courtly, he have be almost rude; but here, in

the land of ill manner, his attention be so assiduous that Louis

be oblige to beg he to moderate they lest they should both be

ridiculous.  he have become a fine-look young man, with a foreign air

and dress agree well with his dark complexion; and he have acquire

much practical ability and information.  mountain, authority, and a

good selection of book have be excellent educator; he be a very

superior and intelligent person, and, without much polish, have lay

aside his peasant rusticity, and develop some of the good quality

of a gentleman. but though open and warm-hearted on many point with

his early friend, there be a gloom and moodiness about he, which

Louis could only explain by think that his unmerited disgrace prey

on he more than be quite manly.  to this cause, likewise, Louis at

first attribute his never choose to hear a word about Charlotte; but

as the distaste--nay almost sullenness, evoke by any allusion to she,

become more apparent, Louis begin unwillingly to balance his suspicion

between some fresh attachment, or unworthy shame at an engagement to a

maidservant.



the poor little damsel's sweet blushing face and shy courtesy, and all

her long and steady faithfulness, make he feel indignant at such a

suspicion, and he resolve to bring Madison to some explanation; but he

do not find the opportunity till after they have embark at the

beautiful little islet of Toboga for Callao.  on board, he have time to

find in his portmanteau the letter with which she have entrust he,

and, seek Madison on deck, give it to he.  he hold it in his hand

without open it; but the sparkle in his dark eye do not betoken the

bashfulness of fondness, and Louis, take a turn along the deck to

watch he unperceive, see he raise his hand as if to throw the poor

letter overboard at once.  a few long step, and Louis be beside he,

exclaim, 'what now, Tom--be that the way you treat your letter?'



'the little hypocrite!  I don't want no more of her false word,'

mutter Tom, return, in his emotion, to his peasant's emphatic

double negative.



'Hypocrite!  do you know how nobly and generously she have be help

Mr. and Mrs. Frost through their strait? how faithfully--'



'I know well,' say Tom, hoarsely; 'don't excuse she, my Lord; you

know little of what pass in your own kitchen.'



'too true, I fear, in many case,' say Louis; 'but I have see this

poor child in circumstance that make I feel sure that she be an

admirable creature.  what misunderstanding can have arise?'



'no misunderstanding, my Lord.  I see, as plain as I see you, her name

and her write in the book that she give to Ford--her copy out of

his love-poem, my Lord, in the blank pages,--if I have want any proof

of what he allege.'



and he have nearly throw the letter into the Pacific; but Louis catch

his arm.



'do you ever read Cymbeline, Tom?'



'yes, to be sure I have,' growl Tom, in surprise.



'then remember Iachimo, and spare that letter.  what do he tell you?'



with some difficulty Fitzjocelyn draw from Madison that he have for some

time be surprised at Ford's knowledge of Northwold and the

neighbourhood; but have indulge in no suspicion till about the epoch

of Robson's return from Guayaquil.  chance to be wait in his

fellow-clerk's room, he have look at his book, and, always attract

by poetry as the rough fellow be, have light on a crimson

water-silk volume, in the first page of which he have, to his horror,

find the name of Charlotte Arnold bear aloft by the two dove, and in

the blank leave several extremely flowery poem in her own handwriting.



with ill-suppress rage he have demand an explanation, and have be

meet with provokingly indifferent inuendoe.  the book be the gift of a

young lady with whom Ford have the pleasure to be acquaint; the little

effusion be trifle of his own, inscribe by her own fair hand.

oh, yes! he know Miss Arnold very well--very pretty, very complaisant!

ah! he be afraid there be some broken heart at home!  poor little

thing! he should never forget how she take leave of he, after force

upon he her little saving!  he be sorry for she, too; but a man

cannot have compassion on all the pretty girl he see.



'and you could be deceive by such shallow coxcombry as this!' say

Louis.



'I tell you there be the book,' return Tom.



'well, Tom, if Mr. Ford prove to be the Ford I take he to be, I'll

undertake that you shall see through he, and be heartily ashamed of

yourself.  give I back the letter,--you do not deserve to have it.'



'I don't want it,' say Tom, moodily; 'she have not be as true to I

as I've be to she, and if she ben't what I take she for, I do not

care to hear of she again.  I use to look at the mountain-top, and

think she be as pure as they; and that she should have be make

herself the talk of a fellow like that, and write so sweet to I all

the time!--No, my Lord, there's no excuse it; and 'twa her be

go after the rest that make it so bitter hard to I!  if she have be

true, I would have go through fire and water to be an honest man

worthy of she; but when I find how she have deceive I, it go hard

with I to cut myself off from the wild mountain life that I'd get to

love, and my poor nigger, that will hardly have so kind a master set

over they.'



'you have stand the fiery ordeal well,' say Louis; 'and I verily

believe that you will soon find that it be only an ordeal.'



the care of Tom be a wholesome distraction to the suspense that become

almost agony as Louis approach Peru, and behold the gigantic summit

of the more northern Andes, which sunset reveal shine out white and

fitfully, like the Pilgrim's vision of the Celestial City, although,

owe to their extreme distance, even on a bright noonday, nothing be

visible but clear deep-blue sky.  they seem to make he realize that

the decisive moment be near, when he should tread the same soil with

Mary, and yet, as he stand silently watch those glorious height,

human hope and care seem to shrink into nothing before the eternity

and Infinite Greatness of which the depth and the height speak.  yet he

remembereth the hair of our head, who weigheth the mountain in the

balance, and counteth the isle as a very little thing.  Louis take

comfort, but nerve himself for resignation; his prayer be more, that

he might bear rightly whatever might be in store, than that he should

succeed.  he could hardly have make the latter petition with that

submissiveness and reserve befit all entreaty for blessing of this

pass world.









CHAPTER XXII.



rather SUDDEN.



  o! would you hear of a spanish lady,

    how she woo'd an Englishman?

  Garments gay, as rich as may be,

    deck with jewel she have on.

                         Old Ballad.





the white building of Callao look out of the palm gardens, and, with

throb heart, Fitzjocelyn be set on shore, leave Madison on board

until he should hear from he that evening or the next morning.



hire a calesa, he drive at once to Lima, to the house of the late Mr.

Ponsonby.  the heavy folding gate admit he to the archway, where

various negro be loiter; and as he inquire for the lady, one

of they raise a curtain, and admit he into the large cool twilight

hall, so dark that, with eye dazzle by the full glare of day, he

could hardly discern at the opposite end of the hall, where a little

more light be admit from one of the teatina window, two figure

seat at a table cover with ledger and paper.  as if dream, he

follow his barefooted guide across the soft India matting, and hear

his spanish announcement, that, might it please her Grace, here be a

Senor from England.



both rise; the one a well-dress man, the other--it be the well-know

action--'Mary!' it be all that he have the power to say; he be hardly

visible, but what tone be ever like that low, distinct, earnest voice?



Mary clasp her hand together as if in bewilderment.



'Xavier should not--I will speak,' whisper her companion to she, and

begin, 'address yourself to I, sir!'



but Mary spring forward, sign he back with her hand.  'it be my

cousin, Lord Fitzjocelyn!' she say, as if breath and effort would

serve no more, and she lay her hand in that of Louis.



'Mr. Ward?' say Louis, barely able to frame the question, yet strive

for a manner that might leave no thorn behind.



'no; oh, no!  Mr. Robson.'



the very sound of the 'no' make his heart bind up again, and his hand

close fast on that which lie within it, while a bow pass between he

and Robson.



'and you be come?' as if it be too incredible.



'I tell you I should,' he answer.



'I will leave you, Miss Ponsonby,' say Robson; 'we will continue our

little business when you be less agreeably engage.'



he begin to gather the paper together, an action which suddenly

recall Louis to the recollection of Tom's caution as to prudence and

alertness, and he force himself to a prompt tone of business.



'I hope to be able to be of use,' he say, turn to Mary.  'Mr.

Dynevor have give I a commission to look into his affair,' and he put

into Robson's hand the letter write by James, and sign by Oliver.



'thank you, Lord Fitzjocelyn, I shall be very happy to give any

explanation you may wish,' say Robson, measure with his eye his

youthful figure and feature, and pile up the book.



'I should prefer have these leave with I,' say Louis; 'I have but

little time before I, and if I could look they over to-night, I should

be prepare for you to-morrow.'



'allow I.  you would find it impossible to understand these entry.

there be much to be set in order before they would be ready for the

honour of your lordship's inspection.'



'I particularly wish to have they at once.  you give I authority to

act for you, Miss Ponsonby?' he add, look at she, as she stood

hold by the table, as one half awake.



'oh! yes, I put the whole into your hand,' she answer, mechanically,

obey his eye.



'allow I, my Lord,' say Robson, as Fitzjocelyn lay the firm hand of

detention on the heavy ledger, and great leathern pocket-book.



'yes; we have well know exactly what you leave in my charge, Mr.

Robson,' say Louis, begin to suspect that the clerk fancy that

the weight and number of the book and bundle of bill might satisfy

his unpractised eye, and that the essential be to be find in the

pocket-book, on which he therefore retain a special hold; ask, as

Robson hold out his hand for it, 'be this private property?'



'why, yes; no, it be and it be not,' say Robson, look at the lady,

as though to judge whether she be attend.  'I only bring it here

that Miss Ponsonby might have before she--always a satisfaction to a

lady, you know, sir--though Miss Ponsonby's superior talent for

business quite enable she to comprehend.  but our affair be not what

I could wish.  the Equatorial bubble be most unfortunate, and that

unfortunate young man, who have abscond after a long course of

embezzlement, have carry off much valuable property.  I be lay the

case before Miss Ponsonby, and show she what amount have be

fortunately secure.'



'what be in the pocket-book?' ask Louis of Mary; and, though she be

apparently conscious of nothing around she, he obtain a direct reply.



'the voucher for the share.'



'in the Equatorial.  unlucky speculation--so much waste paper,'

interrupt Robson.  'your lordship have well let I clear away the

trash, which will only complicate the matter, and distract your

understanding.'



'thank you; as you say there have be fraud, I should be well

satisfied to be able to tell Mr. Dynevor that the paper have never

be out of my hand.  I will call on you early to-morrow.'



Mr. Robson wait to make many inquiry for Mr. Dynevor's health, and

to offer every attention to Lord Fitzjocelyn, to introduce he to the

Consul, to find apartment for he, &c.; but at last he take leave, and

Louis be free to turn to the motionless Mary, who have do nothing all

this time but follow he with her eye.



all his doubt have return, and, in the crisis of his fate, he stand

irresolute, dare neither to speak nor ask, lest feeling should be

betray which might poison her happiness.



'be it you?' be her first word, as though slowly awaken.



'it be I, come to be whatever you will let I be,' he answer, as well

he could.



'oh, Louis!' she say, 'this be too much!'  and she hide her face in her

hand.



'tell I--one word, Mary, and I shall know what to do, and will not

harass nor grieve you.'



'grieve I!  you!' exclaim Mary, in an inexpressibly incredulous tone.



'Enough!  it be as it be before!' and he draw she into his arm, as

unresistingly as five year ago, and his voice sink with intense

thankfulness, as he say, 'my Mary--my Mary! have he not bring it to

pass?'



the tear come drop from her eye, and then she could speak.



'Louis, my dear father withdraw his anger.  he give full consent and

blessing, if you still--'



'then nothing be want--all be peace!' say Louis.  'you know how you

be long for at home--'



'that you should have come--come all this way!  that Lord Ormersfield

should have spare you!' exclaim Mary, break out into happy little

sentence, as her tear relieve she.  'oh, how far off all my distress

and perplexity seem now!  how foolish to have be so unhappy when

there you be close by!  but you must see Dona Rosita,' cry she,

recollect herself, after an interval, 'I must tell she.'



Mary hurry into another room by a glass door, and Louis hear she

speak Spanish, and a languid reply; then return, she beckon to

he to advance, whispering, 'don't be surprised, these be the usual

habit.  we can talk before she, she never follow English.'



he could at first see no one, but presently be aware of a grass

hammock swing from the richly-carve beam, and in it something white;

then of a large pair of black eye gaze full at he with a liquid

soft stare.  he make his bow, and summon his good spanish, and she

make an answer which he understand, by the help of Mary, to be a

welcome; then she smile and sign with her head towards he and Mary,

and say what Mary only interpret by colour, as do Louis, for

such look and smile be of all language.  then it be explain

that only as a relation do she admit his Excellency el Visconde,

before her evening toilette in her duelo be make--Mary would take

care of he.  and dismiss they with a graceful bend of her head, she

return to her doze and her cigarito.



Mary conduct Louis to the cool, shaded, arch doorway, open under

the rich marble cloister of the court-yard, where a fountain make a

delicious bubble in the centre.  she clap her hand--a little

negro girl appear, to whom she give an order, and presently two more

negro come in, bring magnificent orange and pomegranate, and

iced wine and water, on a silver tray, cover with a

richly-embroider napkin.  he would have feel himself in the Alhambra,

if he could have feel anything but that he be beside Mary.



'sit down, sit down, you have prove yourself Mary enough already by

wait on I.  I want to look at you, and to hear you.  you be not

alter!' he cry joyfully, as he draw she into the full light. 'you

have your own eye, and that's your very smile! only grow handsomer.

that's all!'



she really be.  she be a woman to be handsomer at twenty-seven than

at twenty-one; and with the glow of unexpected bliss over her fine

countenance, it do not need a lover's eye to behold she as something

well than beautiful.



and for she! who shall tell the marvel of scarcely-credit joy, every

time she hear the music of his softly-drop distinct word, and

look up at the beloved face, perhaps a little less fair, with rather

less of the boyish delicacy of feature, but more noble, more

define--as soft and sweet as ever, but with all the indecision go;

all that expression that have at time seem like weakness.  he be not

the mere lad she have love with a guide motherly love, but a man to

respect and rely on--ready, collect, deal with easy coolness with

the person who have domineer over that house for year.  he be all,

and more than all, her fond fancy have frame; and come to her aid

at the moment of her utmost difficulty, bring to she by the love

which she have not dare to confide in nor encourage!  no wonder that

she fear to move, lest she should find herself awaken from a dream

too happy to last.



'but oh, Louis,' say she, as if it be almost a pledge of reality to

recollect a vexation, 'I must tell you first, for it will grieve you,

and we do not take pain enough to keep he out of temptation. that

unhappy runaway clerk--'



'be safe at Callao,' say Louis, 'and be to help I to release you from

the mesh they have weave round you.  save for the warning he send

home, I could never have show cause for come to you, Mary, while you

would not summon I.  that be too bad, you know, since you have the

consent.'



'that be only just at last,' falter Mary.  'it be so kind of he,

for I have disappoint he so much!'



'what?  I know, Mary; his letter keep I in a perpetual fright for the

last year; and not one do you write to poor little Clara to comfort

we.'



'it be not right in I,' say Mary; 'but I think it might be so much

well for you if you be never put in mind of I.  I beg your pardon,

Louis.'



'we should have trust each other well, if people would have let we

alone,' say Louis.  'in fact, it be trust after all.  it always come

back again, if it be scare away for a moment.'



'till I begin to doubt if I be do what be kind by you,' say

Mary.  'oh, that be the most distressing time of all; I think if I

be out of the way, you might begin to be happy, and I try to leave

off think about you.'



'be I to thank you?'



'I _could_ not,--that be the truth of it,' say Mary.  'I be able to

keep you out of my mind enough, I hope, for it not to be wrong; but as

to put any one else there--I be force at last to tell poor papa

so, when he want to send for Mr. Ward; and then--he say that if you

have be as constant, he suppose it must be, and he hope we should be

happy; and he say you have be a pet of my mother, and that Lord

Ormersfield have be a real friend to she.  it be so kind of he, for

I know it would have be the great relief to his mind to leave

thing in Mr. Ward's charge.'



Mary have be so much oblige to be continually mention her father,

that, though the loss be still very recent, she be habituate to

speak of he with firmness; and it be an extreme satisfaction to tell

all her sorrow, and all the little soften incident, to Louis.  Mr.

Ponsonby have show much affection and gratitude to she during the few

closing day of his illness, and have manifest some token of

repentance for his past life; but there have be so much pain and

torpor, that there have be little space for reflection, and the long

previous decline have not be accept as a warning.  perhaps the

intensity of Mary's prayer have be return into her bosom, in the

strong blindness of filial love; for as she dwell fondly on the few

sign of well thing, the narration fall mournfully on Louis's ear,

as that of an unhopeful deathbed.



an exceeding unwillingness to contemplate death, have prevent Mr.

Ponsonby from make a new will.  by one make many year back, he have

leave the whole of his property, without exception, to his daughter, his

first wife having be provide for by her marriage settlement, and

now, with characteristic indolence and selfishness, he have defer

till too late the securing any provision for his limenian wife; and

only when he find himself die, have he say to Mary, 'you will take

care to provide for poor Rosita!'



so Mary have find herself heiress to a share in the miserably-involve

affair of Dynevor and Ponsonby; and as soon as she could think of the

future at all, have form the design of settle Rosita in a convent

with a pension, and go herself to England.



but Rosita be not easily to be induce to give up her gaiety for a

convent life; and, moreover, there be absolutely such a want of ready

money, that Mary do not see how to get home, though Robson assure she

there be quite enough to live upon as they be at present.  nor be

it possible to dispose of the mine and other property without Mr.

Dynevor's consent, and he might not be in a state to give it.



the next stroke be young Madison's sudden disappearance, and the

declaration by Robson that he have carry off a great deal of

property--a disappointment to her even great than the loss.  Robson

be profuse in compliment and attention, but continually defer the

statement of affair that he have promise; and Mary could not bear to

accept the help of Mr. Ward, the only person at hand able and willing

to assist she.  she have at last grow desperate, and, resolve to have

something positive to write to Mr. Dynevor, as well as not to go on

live without know her mean, she have insist on Robson bring

his account.  she know just enough to be dissatisfied with his vague

statement; and the more he praise her sagacity, the more she see that

he be take advantage of her ignorance, which he presume to be far

great than it really be. at the very moment when she be most

persuade of his treachery, and feel the most lonely and desolate--when

he be talk fluently, and she be seek to rally her spirit, and

discover the path of right judgment, where the welfare of so many be

concern--it be then that Fitzjocelyn's voice be in her ear.



she have scarcely explain to Louis why his come be, if possible,

doubly and trebly welcome, when the negro admit another guest, whom

Rosita receive much as she have do his predecessor, only with less

curiosity.  Mary rise, blush deeply, and cross the room hold out

her hand, and say simply, but with something of apology, 'Mr. Ward,

this be Lord Fitzjocelyn.'



Mr. Ward raise his eye to her face for one moment.  'I understand,'

he say, in a low, not quite steady voice.  'it be well.  will you

present I?' he add, as though collect himself like a brave man

after a blow.



'here be my kind friend,' she say, as she conduct he to Louis,

and they shake hand in the very manner she wish to see, learn

mutual esteem from her tone and each other's aspect.



'I be sorry to have intrude,' say Mr. Ward.  'I come in the hope that

you might find some mean of make I of use to you; and, perhaps, I

may yet be of some assistance to Lord Fitzjocelyn.'



he enforce the proposal with so much cordiality, and show so plainly

that it would be his chief pleasure and consolation to do anything for

Miss Ponsonby, that they do not scruple to take he into their

counsel; and Mary look on with exulting wonder at the ability and

readiness display by Louis in the discussion of business detail,

even with a man whose profession they be.  in remote space, almost

beyond memory, save to enhance the present joy of full reliance, be

the old uncomfortable sense of his lean too much upon she.  to have

he act and think for she, and with one touch carry off her

whole burthen of care, be comfort and gladness beyond what she have

even devise in imagination.  the only drawback, besides compassion for

Mr. Ward, be the shock of hearing of the extent of the treachery of

Robson, in whom her father have trust so implicitly, and to whom he

have show so much favour.



they agree that they would go to the Consul, and concert measure;

Mary only beg that Robson might not be hardly deal with, and they

go away, leave she to her overwhelming happiness, which begin to

become incredible as soon as Louis be out of sight.



by-and-by, he come back to the evening meal, when Rosita appear, with

her uncovered hair in two long, unadorned tress, plait, and hang

down on each shoulder, and array in black robe, which, by their

weight and coarseness, recall eastern fashion of mourning, which

Spain derive from the Moors.  she attempt a little spanish talk with

El Visconde, much to his inconvenience, though he be too joyous not to

be doubly good-natured, especially as he pity she, and regard she

as a very perplexing charge newly lay on he.



he have time to tell Mary that he be to sleep at the Consul's, whence

he have send a note and a messenger to fetch Tom Madison, since it

appear that the prosecution, the rumour of which have frighten the

poor fellow away, have not be actually set on foot before he decamp;

and even if it have be, there be many under bad imputation at

large in the Peruvian Republic.



Fitzjocelyn have appoint that Robson should call on he early in the

morning, and, if he fail to detect he, intend to confront he with

Madison before the Consul, when there could be little doubt that his

guilt would be bring home to he.  he find that the Consul and Mr.

Ward have both conceive a bad opinion of Robson, and have wonder at

the amount of confidence repose in he; whereas Madison have be

remark as a young man of more than average intelligence and

steadiness, entirely free from that vice of gambling which be the bane

of all class in Spanish South America.  Mary sigh as she hear

Louis speak so innocently of 'all classes'--it be too true, as he

would find to his cost, when he come to look into their affair, and

learn what Rosita have squander.  next, he ask about the other

clerk, Ford, of whom Mary know very little, except that she have hear

Robson mention to her father, when prepare to set out for Guayaquil,

that in the consequent press of business he have engage a new

assistant, who have come from Rio as servant to a traveller.  she have

sometimes hear Robson speak in praise of his acquisition, and exalt

he above Madison; and once or twice she have see he, and fancy he

like some one whom she have know somewhere, but she have for many month

seldom leave her father's room, and know little of what pass beyond it.



Louis take his leave early, as he have to examine his prize, the

pocket-book, and make up his case before confront Robson; and he

tell Mary that he should refrain from see she on the morrow until

the 'tug of war should be over.'  'Mr. Ward promise to come to help

I,' he add.  'really, Mary, I never see a more generous or

considerate person.  I be constantly on the point of beg his

pardon.'



'I must thank he some way or other,' say Mary; 'his forbearance have

be beautiful.  I only wish he would have believe I, for I always

tell he the plain truth.  it would have spare he something; but

nobody would trust my account of you.'



the morning come, and with it Madison; but patient as Fitzjocelyn

usually be, he be extremely annoyed at find his precious time

waste by Robson's delay in keep his appointment.  after allow

for differ clock, for tropical habit, and every other imaginable

excuse for unpunctuality, he decide that there must have be some

mistake, and set off to call at the counting-house.



a black porter open the door, and he step forward into the inner

room, where, lean lazily back before a desk, smoke a cigar over

his newspaper, array in a loose white jacket, with open throat and

slippere foot, repose a gentleman, much transform from the spruce

butler, but not difficult of recognition.  he start to his foot with

equal alacrity and consternation, and bow, not commit himself

until he should see whether he be actually know to his lordship.

Fitzjocelyn be in too great haste to pause on this matter, and quickly

acknowledge the salutation, as if that of a stranger, demand where

Mr. Robson be.



in genuine surprise and alarm, Ford exclaim that he have not see he;

he think he be go to meet his lordship at the Consular residence.

no! could he be at his own house?  it be close by, and the question

be ask, but the Senor Robson have go out in the very early morning.

Ford look paler and paler, and while Louis say he would go and

inquire for he at Miss Ponsonby's, offer to go down to the Consul's

to see if he have arrive there in the meantime.



Mary come to meet Louis in the sala, say that she be afraid that

they have not show sufficient consideration for poor Dona Rosita, who

really have feeling; she have go early to her convent, and have not yet

return, though she have be absent two hour.



Louis have but just explain his perplexity and vexation, when the old

negro Xavier come in with look of alarm, beg to know whether La

Senora be come in, and excuse himself for having lose sight of she.

she have not go to the convent, but to the cathedral; and he, kneeling

in the crowded nave while she pass on to one of the side chapel, have

not see she again, and, after wait far beyond the usual duration of

her devotion, have suppose that she have go home unattended.



as he finish his story, there be a summon to Lord Fitzjocelyn to

speak to Mr. Ford, and on Mary's desiring that he should be admit,

he come forward, exclaim, 'my Lord, he have not be at the Consul's!

I beg to state that he have the key of all the valuable at the office;

nothing be in my charge.'



Louis turn to consult Mary; but, as if a horrible idea have come over

she, she be already speed through the door of the quadra, and

appear there again in a few second, she beckon he, with a

countenance of intense dismay, and whisper under her breath, 'Louis!

Louis! her jewel be go!  poor thing! poor thing! what will become

of she?'



Mary have more reason for her frightful suspicion than she would detain

he to hear.  Robson, always polite, have be especially so to the

young Limenian; she have be much leave to his society, and Mary have

more than once fancy that they be more at ease in her own absence.

she be certain that the saya y manto have be frequently employ to

enable Rosita to enjoy dissipation, when her husband's condition would

have render her public appearance impossible; and at the Opera or on

the Alameda, Robson might have have every opportunity of pay she

attention, and forward her amusement. there could be no doubt that

she have understand more of their plan than have be suppose, have

warn he, and share his flight.



Pursuit, capture, and a nunnery would be far great kindness to the

poor childish being, than leave she to the mercy of a runaway

swindler; and all measure be promptly take, Ford throw himself

into the chase with great ardour and indignation than even Madison;

for he have trust to Robson's grand profession that he could easily

throw dust into the young Lord's inexperienced eye, come off with

fly colour, and protect his subordinate.  if he have change his

mind since the Senora's warning, he have not think it necessary to

inform his confederate; and Ford be not only furious at the desertion,

but anxious to make a merit of his zeal, and encourage by having as

yet see no sign that he be recognise.



regardless of heat and fatigue, Fitzjocelyn, Mr. Ward, and the two

clerk, be indefatigable throughout the day, but it be not till near

sunset that a spanish agent of Mr. Ward's bring back evidence that a

Limenian lady and english gentleman have be hastily marry by a

village padre in the early morning, and Madison shortly after come from

Callao, having trace such a pair to an american vessel, which be long

since out of harbour.  it be well that the pocket-book have be save,

for it contain security to a large amount, which Robson, after

show to Mary to satisfy she, doubtless intend to keep in hand for

such a start as the present.  without it, he have contrive, as Madison

know, to secure quite sufficient to remove any anxiety as to the

Senora Rosita own a fair share of her late husband's property.



the day of terrible anxiety make it a relief to Mary to have any

certainty, though she be infinitely shock at the tiding, which

Louis convey to she at once.  Mrs. Willis, whom Mr. Ward have send to

be her companion, go to her brother in the outer room, and leave the

lover alone in the quadra, where Mary could freely express her grief

and disappointment, her sorrow for the insult to her father, and her

apprehension for the poor fugitive herself, whom she love enough to

lament for exceedingly, and to recall every excuse that could be find

in a wretched education, a miserable state of society, a childish mind,

and religion present to she in a form that do nothing to make it

less childish.



Mary's first recovery from the blow be show by her remembering how

fatigued and heated Louis must be, and when she have give order for

refreshment for he, and have thus resume something of her ordinary

frame, he sit look at she anxiously, and presently say, 'and what

will you do next, Mary!'



'I cannot tell.  Mrs. Willis and Mrs. ---- have both be ask I

very kindly to come to they, but I cannot let Mrs. Willis stay with I

away from her child.  yet it seem hard on Mr. Ward that you should

be come to I there.  I suppose I must go to Mrs. ----; but I wait

to consult you.  I have rather be at home, if it be right.'



'it may easily be make right,' quietly say Louis.



'how!' ask Mary.



'I find,' he continue, 'that the whole affair may be easily settle,

if you will give I authority.'



'I think I have give you authority to act in my name.'



'it might be simplify.'



'shall I sign my name!'



'yes--once--to make mine your.  if your claim be mine, I can take

much well care of the Dynevor interest.'



Mary rest her cheek on her hand, and look at he with her grave

steady face, not very much discompose after the first glimpse of his

meaning.



'will you, Mary?'



'you know I will,' she say.



'then there be no time to be lose.  let it be to-morrow.  Yes'--going

on in the quiet deliberate tone that make it so difficult to interrupt

him--'then I could, in my own person, negotiate for the sale of the

mine.  I find there be an offer that Robson keep secret. I could wind

up the account, see what can be save for the Northwold people, and

take you safe home by the end of a fortnight.'



'oh, Louis!' cry Mary, almost sob, 'this will not do.  I cannot

entangle you in our ruinous affair.'



'insufficient objection be consent,' say Louis, smile.  'do you

trust I, Mary?'



'it be of no use to ask.'



'you think I be not to be trust with affair that have become my own!

I believe I be, Mary.  you know I must do my utmost for the dynevor;

and I assure you I see my way.  I have no reasonable doubt of clear

off all future liability.  you mean to let I arrange?'



'yes, but--'



'then why not obviate all awkward situation at once?'



'my father!  you should not ask it, Louis.'



'I would not hasten you, but for the sake of my own father, Mary.  he

be grow old, and I could not have leave he for anything but the hope

of bring he his own choose daughter.  I want you to help I take

care of he, and we must not leave he alone to the long evening and

cold wind.'



Mary be yielding--'I must not keep you from he,' she say, 'but

to-morrow--a Sunday, too--'



'ah!  Mary, do you want gaiety!  no, if we cannot have it in a holy

place, let it at least have the consecration of the day--let we have

fifty-two wedding day a year instead of one.  indeed, I would not

press you, but that I could take care of you so much well, and it be

not as if our acquaintance have not begin--how long ago--twenty-seven

year, I think?'



'settle it as you like,' she manage to say, with a great flood of

tear-but what soft bright tear!  'I trust you.'



he see she want solitude; he only stay for a few word of earnest

thank, and the assurance that secrecy and quietness would be well

assure by speed.  'I will come back,' he say, 'when I have see to

the arrangement.  and there be one thing I must do first, one poor

fellow who must not be leave in suspense any long.'



tired as he ought to have be, he lightly cross the sala to the room

appropriate to business, where he have desire the two clerk to wait

for he, and where Tom Madison stand against the wall, with fold

arm, while Ford lounge in a disengage attitude on a chair, but rise

alert and respectful at his appearance.



Louis ask one or two necessary question on the custody of the office

for the night and ensue day, and Ford make repeat assurance that

nothing would be find missing that have be leave in his charge.  'I

believe you, Mr. Delaford,' say Fitzjocelyn, quietly.  'I do not think

the low specie of fraud be ever in your style.'



Delaford try to open his lip, but visibly shake.  Louis answer,

what he have not yet say, 'I do not intend to expose you.  I think you

have what excuse neglect can give, and unless I should be call on

conscientiously to speak to your character, I shall leave you to make a

new one.'



Delaford begin to stammer out thank, and promise of explain the

whole of Robson's peculation (little he know the whole of they).



'there be one earnest of your return to sincerity that I require,' say

Louis.  'explain at once the degree of your acquaintance with Charlotte

Arnold.'



Tom Madison still stand moody--affect not to hear.



'oh! my Lord, I do not know that you be interested in that young

person.'



'I be interested where innocence have be malign,' say Louis,

sternly.



'I be sure, my Lord, nothing have ever pass at which the most

particular need take umbrage,' exclaim Delaford.  'if Mr. Madison

will recollect, I mention nothing as the most fastidious need--'



Mr. Madison would not hear.



'you only infer that she have not be insensible to your

attraction?'



'why, indeed, my Lord, I flatter myself that in my time I have have the

happiness of not be unpleasing to the sex,' say Delaford, with a

sigh and a simper.



'it be a mortifying question, but you owe it to the young woman to

answer, whether she give you any encouragement.'



'no, my Lord.  I must confess that she always speak of a previous

attachment, and dash my early hope to the ground.'



'and the book of poem!  how come that to be in your possession?



Delaford confess that it have be a little tribute, return upon his

hand by the young lady in question.



'one question more, Mr. Delaford: what be the fact as to her lending

you mean for your voyage?'



Delaford be not easily bring to confession on this head; but he do

at length own that he have go in great distress to Charlotte, and have

appeal to her bounty; but he distinctly acknowledge that it be not

in the capacity of suitor; in fact, as he end by declare, he have

the pleasure of say that there be no young person whom he esteem

more highly than Miss Arnold, and that she have never give he the

least encouragement, such as need distress the happy man who have

secure her affection.



the happy man do not move till Delaford have leave the room, when Louis

walk up to he and say, 'I can far tell you, of my own

knowledge, that that good girl refuse large wage, and a lady's-maid's

place, partly because she would not live in the same house with that

man; and she have work on with a faithful affection and constancy,

beyond all praise, as the single servant to Mr. and Mrs. Frost in their

distress.'



'don't talk to I, my Lord,' cry Tom, turn away; 'I'm the most

unhappy man in the world!'



'I do not ask you to shake hand with Delaford to-night.  you will

another day.  he be only a vain coxcomb, and treat you to a little of

his conceit, with, perhaps, a taste of spite at a successful rival; but

he have only show you what a possession you have in she.'



'you don't know what I've do, my Lord.  I have write she a letter

that she can never forgive!'



'you don't know what I've do, Tom.  I post a letter by the mail

just start from Callao--a letter to Mr. Frost, with a hint to

Charlotte that you be labour under a little delusion; I know, from

your first narration, that Ford could be no other than my old friend,

shorn of his beam.'



'that letter--' still mutter Tom.



'she'll forgive, and like you all the well for having afford she a

catastrophe, Tom.  you may write by the next mail; unless, what be

well still, you come home with we by the same, and speak for

yourself.  if I be your master then, I'll give you the holiday.  yes,

Tom, it be important to I to clear up your countenance, for I want to

bespeak your service to-morrow as my friend.'



'my Lord!' cry Tom, aghast.  'if you do require any such service,

though I should not have think it, there be many nearer your own

rank, officer and gentleman fitter for an affair of the kind.  I never

know anything about fire-arm, since I give up poach.'



'indeed, Tom, I be very far from intend to dispense with your

service.  I want you to guide I to procure the require weapon!'



'surely,' say Tom, with a deep, reluctant sigh, 'you never cross the

Isthmus without one?'



'yes, indeed, I do; I never see the party there whom I should have

like to challenge in this way.  why, Tom, do you really think I have

come out to Peru to fight a duel on a Sunday morning?'



'that's what come of live in this sort of place.  duel be meat and

drink to the people here,' say Tom, ashamed and relieve, 'and there

have be those who tell I it be all that be want to make I a

gentleman.  but in what capacity be I to serve you, my Lord!'



'in the first place, tell I where I may procure a wedding-ring! yes,

Tom, that's the weapon!   you've no objection to be my friend in

that capacity!'



Tom's astonished delight go beyond the bound of expression, and

therefore be compress into an almost grim 'whatever you will, my

Lord;' but two hot tear be gush from his eye.  he dash they

away, and add, 'what a fool I be!  you'll believe I, my Lord, though

I cann't speak, that, though there may be many near and more your

equal, there's none on earth more glad and happy to see you so, than

myself.'



'I believe it, indeed, Tom; shake hand, to wish I joy; I be right

glad to have one here from Ormersfield, to make it more home-like. for,

though it be a hurry at last, you can guess what she have be to I

from the first.  know she thoroughly have be one of the many, many

benefit that Ferny dell confer on I.'



there be no time for more than to enjoin silence.  Louis have to hurry

to the Consul and the Chaplain, and to overcome their astonishment.



on the other hand, Mary be, as usual, seek and recover the

balance of her startled spirit in her own chamber.  she see the matter

wisely and simply, and have full confidence in Louis, with such a

yearning for his protection that, it may be, the strange suddenness of

the proposal cost she the less.  she come forth and announce she

intention to Mrs. Willis, who be inclined to resent it as derogatory

to the dignity of womanhood, and the privilege of a bride; but Mary

smile and answer that, 'when he have take so much trouble for she,

she could not give he any more by thing of that sort.  she must be as

little in his way as possible.'



and Mrs. Willis sigh, and pity she, but be glad that she should be

off her poor brother's mind as soon as might be, and be glad to resign

her task of chaperone she.



only three person beyond the Consul's family know what be about to

happen, when Miss Ponsonby, in her deep mourning, attend the morning

service in the large hall at the Consul-house; and such eye as be

direct towards the handsome stranger, only gaze at the unwonted

spectacle of an english nobleman, not with the more eager curiosity

that would have be attach to he have all be know.



Mr. Ward linger a few moment, and beg for one word with Miss

Ponsonby. she could not but comply, and come to meet he, blushing, but

compose, in that simple, frank kindness which only wish to soften

the disappointment.



'Mary,' he say, 'I be not come to harass you.  I have do so long

enough, and I would not have torment you, but on that one head I do

not do justice to your judgment.  I see now how vain my hope be. I be

glad to have meet he--I be glad to know how worthy of you he be, and to

have see you in such hand.'



'you be very kind to speak so,' say Mary.



'yes, Mary, I could not have bear to part with you, if I be not

convince that he be a good man as well as an able man.  I might have

know that you would not choose otherwise.  I shall see your name among

the great lady of the land.  I come to say something else.  I wish

to thank you for the many happy hour I have spend with you, though you

never for a moment trifle with I.  it be I who deceive myself.

good-bye, Mary.  perhaps you will write to my sister, and let she know

of your arrival.'



'I will write to you, if you please,' say Mary.



'it will be a great pleasure,' he say, earnestly.  'and will you let

I be of any use in my power to you and Lord Fitzjocelyn?'



'indeed, we shall be most grateful.   you have be a most kind and

forbearing friend.  I should like to know that you be happy,' say

Mary, lingering, and hardly know what to say.



'my little niece be fond enough of their uncle.  my sister want I.

in short, you need not vex yourself about I.  some day, when I be an

old man, I may come and bring you news of Lima.  meanwhile, you will

sometimes wear this bracelet, and remember that you have an old friend.

I shall call on Lord Fitzjocelyn at the office to-morrow, and see if we

can find any clue to Robson's retreat.  good-bye, and blessing on you,

Mary.'



Mary rejoin Louis, to speak to he of the kind and noble man who so

generously and resolutely bear the wreck of his hope.  they walk up

and down together in the cool shade of the tree in the Consul's

garden, and they speak of the unselfishness which seem to take away

the smart from the wound of disappointment.  they speak sometimes, but

the day be for the most part spend in the sweetness of pensive, happy

silence, muse with full heart over this crowning of their long

defer hope, and not without prayer that the same protect Hand

might guide they, as they should walk together through life.



by-and-by Mary disappear.  she would perhaps have prefer she

ordinary dress--but the bridal white seem to she to be due both to

Louis and to the solemn rite and mystery; and when the time come, she

meet he, in her plain white muslin and long veil, confine by a few

spray of real orange flower, beneath which her calmly noble face be

see, simple and collect as ever, forget in her earnestness all

adjunct that might have be embarrassing or distressing.



the large hall be darken with twilight, and the flower and

branch that deck it show gracefully in the subdue light. prayer

and praise have lately echo there, and Louis and Mary could feel that

he be with they who bless the pair at Cana, far distant as they be

from their own church--their own home.  yes, the Church, their mother,

their home, be with they in her sacred ritual and her choice

blessing, and their conscience be free from self-will, or

self-pleasing, such as would have put far from they the precious gift

promise in the name of their Lord.



when it be over, and they first raise their eye to one another's

face, each beheld in the other a look of entire thankful content, not

the less perfect because it be grave and peaceful.



'I think mamma would be quite happy,' say Mary.









CHAPTER XXIII.



the MARVEL of PERU.



  Turn, Angelina, ever dear,

    my charmer, turn to see

  Thy own, thy long-lose Edwin here,

    restore to love and thee,

                              goldsmith.





Lord Ormersfield sit alone in the library, where the fire burn more

for the sake of cheerfulness than of warmth.  his eye be weary with

reading, and, take off his spectacle, he turn his chair away from

the table, and sit gaze into the fire, give audience to dreamy

thought.



he miss the sunny face ever prompt to watch his mood, and find or

make time for the cheerful word or desultory chat which often break and

refresh dry occupation.  he remember when he have hardly tolerate

the glass of flower, the scrap of drawing, the unbusinesslike book

at his son's end of the table, but the room look dull without they

now, and he be ready to own the value of the grace and finish of life,

hinder the daily task from absorb the whole man, as have be the

case with himself in middle life.



somewhat of the calm of old age have begin to fall on the Earl, and he

have latterly be willnot to think more deeply.  these trifle could not

have speak to his heart save for their connexion with his son, and

even Louis's taste would have wear out with habit, have it not be for

the radiance permanent in his own mind, namely, the thankful, adoring

love that find the true brightness in "whatsoever thing be pure,

whatsoever thing be lovely, whatsoever thing be of good report."

this spirit it be which have keep his heart fresh, his spirit youthful,

and change constitutional versatility into a power of hearty

adaptation to the least congenial taste.



Gentleness, affection, humility, and refinement be in his nature.

Mrs. Frost have train these quality into the beauty of Christian

grace; and Mrs. Ponsonby and her daughter have teach he to bring his

high principle to supply that which be want.  Indolence of will,

facility of disposition, unsteadiness of purpose, inconsiderate

impulse without perseverance, have all betoken an inherent weakness,

which the Earl's cure, ambition, have be powerless to remedy; but duty

have be effectual in draw strength out of what have be feeble by

nature.  it be religion that have make a man of Louis; and his father

see and own it, no long as merely the woman's guide in life and the

man's resource chiefly in death, to be respect and moderately

attend to, but never so as to interfere unreasonably with the world.

no; he have learn that it be the only sure and sound move-spring: he

know it as his son's strengthening, brighten thread of life; and

begin to perceive that his own course might have be less gloomy and

less harsh, devoid of such dark strand, have he hold the right clue.

the contrast bring back some line which, without mark, he have

hear Louis and his aunt read together, and, albeit little willnot to

look into his son's book, he be so much haunted by the rhythm that he

rise and search they out--



          Yea, mark he well, ye cold and proud,

          Bewildered in a heartless crowd,

            start and turn pale

              at rumour's angry din:

            no storm can now assail

              the charm he bear within.

          rejoice still, and do good,

          and with the thought of God imbue,

            no glare of high estate,

              no gloom of woe or want,

            the radiance may abate,

              where Heaven delight to haunt.





the description go to his heart, so well do it agree with Louis. yet

there be a sad feeling, for the south american mail have be some day

due, and he have not hear of his son since he be about to land at

Callao.  five month be a long absence; and as the chance of failure,

disappointment, climate, disease, and shipwreck arise before he, he

marvel at himself for having consent to peril his sole treasure,

and even fancy that a solitary, childless old age might be the

penalty in store for having wait to be lead heavenward by his son.



it be seldom that the Earl give way, and, reproach himself for his

weakness, he rouse himself and rang the bell for well light. there

be a movement in the house, and for some moment the bell be not

answer; but presently the door be open.



'bring the other lamp.'



'yes, my Lord.'



the slow, soft voice do not belong to Frampton.  he start up, and

there stand Louis!



'my dear father,' he say; and Lord Ormersfield spring up, grasp his

son's hand, and lay the other hand on his shoulder, but durst ask no

question, for the speedy return seem to bespeak that he have fail.

he look in Louis's face, and see it full of emotion, with dew on the

eyelash; but suddenly a sweet archness gleam in the eye, and he

steady his trembling lip to say with a smile,



'Lady Fitzjocelyn!'



and that very moment Mary be in Lord Ormersfield's arm.



'my child! my dear child, happy at last!  God bless you!  this be

all I ever wish!'



he hold a hand of each, and look from one to the other till Mary

turn away to hide her tear of joy; and Louis, with his eye still

moist, begin talk, to give her time to recover.



'you will forgive our not write?  we land this morning, find the

last mail be not come in, and could not help come on.  we know you

would be anxious, and think you would not mind the suddenness.'



'no, indeed,' say his father; 'if all surprise be like this one!

but you be the loser, Mary.  I be afraid this be not the reception for

a bride!'



'Mary have dispense with much that belong to a bride,' say Louis.

'see here!' and, seize her hand, he begin pull off her glove, till

she do it for he; 'do you ever see such a wedding-ring?--a great,

solid thing of peruvian gold, with a spanish posy inside!'



'I like it,' say Mary; 'it shows--'



'what you be worth, eh, Mary?  well! here we be!  it seem real at

last!  and you, father, have you be well?'



'yes, well indeed, now I have you both!  but how come you so quickly?

you never bring she across the Isthmus?'



'indeed I do.  she would come.  it be her first act of rebellion; for

we be not go to let you meet the frost alone--the October frost,

I mean; I hope the Dynevor frost be all right?'



Frampton be here see at the open door, doubtful whether to intrude;

yet, impel by necessity, as he catch Fitzjocelyn's eye, he,

hesitating, said--



'my Lord, the spanish gentleman!'



'the great triumph of my life!' cry Louis, actually clap his

hand together with ecstacy, to the butler's extreme astonishment.



'why, Frampton, don't you know he?'



'my Lord!!!'



'let I introduce you, then, to--Mr. Thomas Madison!' and, as Frampton

still stand perplexed, look at the fine, foreign-look man, who

be keep in the background, busy with the luggage, Louis

continue, 'you cannot credit such a marvel of Peru!'



'Young Madison, my Lord!' repeat Frampton, slowly come to his

sense.



'no other.  he have do Lady Fitzjocelyn and all of we infinite

service,' continue Louis, quickly, to prevent Madison's reception from

receive a fall in proportion to the grandeur of the first impression.

'he be to stay here for a short time before go to his appointment at

Bristol, in Mr. Ward's counting-house, with a salary of 180 pound. I

shall be much oblige if you will make he welcome.'



and, return in his glee to the library, Louis find Mary explain

how 'a gentleman at Lima,' who have long profess to covet so good a

clerk as Madison, have, on the break-up of their firm, offer he a

confidential post, for which he be well fit by his knowledge of the

spanish language and the south american trade, to receive the cargo

send home.  'in truth,' say Louis, come in, 'I have reason to be

proud of my pupil.  we could never have find our way through the

account without he; and the old cornish man, whom we send for from

the mine, give testimony to he such as will do Mr. Holdsworth's heart

good.  but nothing be equal to Frampton's take he for a spanish Don!'



'and poor Delaford's witness be quite as much to his credit,' say

Mary.



'ay! if Delaford have not be equally willing to depose against he

when he be the apparent catiline!' say Louis.  'Poor Delaford! he be

very useful to we, after all; and I should be glad to know he have a

well fate than go off to the digging with a year's salary in his

pocket!'



(Footnote.  a recent writer relate that he find the near relation of

a nobleman gain a scanty livelihood as shoe-black at the digging.

Query.  might not this be Mr. Delaford?)



'then everything be settle?' ask his father.



'almost everything.  the mine be off our hand, and the transfer will

be complete as soon as Oliver have send his signature; and there's

quite enough save to make they very comfortable.  you have tell I

nothing of they yet?'



'they be all very well.  James have be come here twice a-week since

I have be at home, and have be very attentive and pleasant; but I

have not be at the Terrace much.  there never be such a houseful of

child.  Oliver's room be the only place where one be safe from

fall over two or three.  however, they seem to like it, and to

think, the more the well.  James come over here the morning after the

boy be bear, as much delighted as if he have have any prospect.'



'a boy at last!  Poor Mr. Dynevor!  do he take it as an insult to his

misfortune?'



'he seem as well pleased as they; and, in fact, I hope the boy may

not, after all, be unprovide for.  Mr. Mansell write to offer to be

godfather, and I think I could not do otherwise than ask he to stay

here.  I be glad I do so, for he tell I that now he have see for

himself the noble way they be go on in, he have make up his mind.

he have no relation nearer than Isabel, and he mean to make his will in

favour of her son.  he ask whether I would be a trustee, but I say I

be grow old, and have little doubt you would be glad enough.  you

will have plenty of such work, Louis.  it be very dangerous to be know

as a good man-of-business, and good-natured.'



'pray, how do Jem bear it?'



'with tolerable equanimity.  it may be many year before the child be

affect by it, if Mrs. Mansell have it for her life.  besides, James be

a wise man than he use to be.'



'he have be somewhat like Robinson Crusoe's old goat,' say Louis.

'Poor Jem! the fall and the scanty fare tame he.  I like he so well

before, that I do not know how much well I be yet to like he.

Mary, you must see his workhouse.  give up his time to it as he do,

he do infinite good there.'



'yes, Mr. Calcott say that he live in fear of some one offer he a

living,' say Lord Ormersfield.



'and the dear old Giraffe?' say Louis.



'Clara?  she be look almost handsome.  I wish some good man would

marry she.  she would make an excellent wife.'



'I be not ready to spare she yet,' say Mary; 'I must make acquaintance

with she before any excellent man carry she off.'



'but there be a marriage that will surprise you,' say the Earl; 'your

eld cousin, whose name I can never remember--'



'Virginia,' cry Louis.  'Captain Lonsdale, I hope!'



'what could have make you fix on he?'



'because the barricade could not have be in vain, and he be an

excellent fellow, to whom I owe a great deal of gratitude.  he keep my

aunt's terror in abeyance most gallantly; and little Virginia drink in

his word, and build up a hero!  but how be it?'



'you remember that Lady Conway would not take our advice, and stay

quietly at home.  on the first steamer she fall in with this captain,

and it seem that she be helpless enough, without her former butler,

to be very grateful to he for manage her passport and conduct

she through Germany.  and the conclusion be, that she herself have

encourage he so far, that she really have not any justification in

refuse when he propose for the young lady, as he be fairly provide

for.'



'my poor aunt!  no one ever pity she when she be 'hoist with her own

petard!'  I be glad poor Virginia be to be happy in her own way.'



'I shall send my congratulation to-morrow,' say the Earl, smile

triumphantly, 'and a piece of intelligence of my own.  at H. B. M.

Consul's, Lima--what day be it, Louis?'



Mary run away to take off her bonnet, as much surprise by the Earl's

mirth as if she have see primrose in December.  yet such blossom be

sometimes tempt forth; and affection be breathe something like a

second spring on the life so long unnaturally chilled and blight.

if his shoulder be bow, his figure have lose much of its rigidity;

and though his lock be thin and whiten, and his countenance

slightly aged, yet the softened look and the more frequent smile have

smooth away the sternness, and give gentleness to his dignity.



no soon be she out of the room than Lord Ormersfield ask, 'and

what have you do with the spanish woman?'



the answer excite a peal of laughter, which make Louis stand aghast,

both at such unprecedented merriment and at the cause; for hitherto he

have so entirely feel with Mary, as never to have see the ludicrous

aspect of the elopement.  presently, however, he be amuse by

perceive that his father not merely regard it as a relief from an

embarrassing charge, but as an entire acquittal for his own conscience

for any slander he have formerly believe of Dona Rosita.



Louis briefly explain that, the poor lady be provide for by

Robson's investment in America, he have think it right that the

Ponsonby share of the firm should bear the loss through these

embezzlement; and he have find that her extravagance have make such

inroad on the property, that while the Dynevor share (always the

large) result in a fair competence, Louis have save nothing out of

the wreck of the Ponsonby affair but Mary herself.  'can you excuse

it, father?' he say, with all the old debonnaire manner.



'you will never be a rich man, Louis.  you and she will have some

care, but--' and his voice grow thick--'you be rich in what make

life happy.  you have leave I nothing more to ask or wish for!'



'except that I may be worthy of she, father.  you first teach I how

she ought to be love.  you have be very patient with I all this

time.  I feel as if I must thank you for her--' and then, change his

tone as she open the door--'Look at she now she have her bonnet

off--do not she look natural?'



'I be sure I feel so,' say Mary.  'you know this always seem more

like home than anything else.'



'yes, and now I do feel sure that I have you at last, Mary.  that

moorish castle of yours use to make I afraid of waken: it be so

much fitter for Isabel's fantastic Viscount.  by-the-bye, have she

bring that book out?'



'oh, yes, and James be nearly as proud of it as he be of his son.  he

actually want I to read it!  he tell I it be sell very well,

and I hope it may really bring they in something.'



'now, then--there's the tea.  sit down, Mary, and look exactly as you

do the morning I come home and find you.'



'I'm afraid I cannot,' say Mary, look up in his face with an arch,

deprecate expression.



'why not?'



'don't you know that I be so much happy?'



before breakfast next morning Fitzjocelyn must visit his farm, and Mary

must come with he.



how delicious be that english morning after their voyage; the slant

ray of the sun silver the turf, and cast rainbow across the

gossamer thread from one brown bent to another; the harvest field on

the slope dot with rich sheaf of wheat; the coppice, in their

summer glory, here and there touch with the gold of early autumn, and

the slope and meadow bright with lively green, a pleasant change for

eye fresh from the bare, rugged mountain-side and the rank unwholesome

vegetation of Panama.  Shaggy little scottish oxen be feed on the

dewy grass, their black coat look sleek in the sun beyond the long

shadow of the thorn; but as Mary say, laugh, 'only Farmer

Fitzjocelyn's cattle come here now,' and she stop more than once to

be introduce to some notable animal, or to hear the history of

experiment in fat beast.



'there! they have find you out!  that's for you,' say Louis, as a

merry peal of bell break out from the church tower, and come joyously

up through the tranquil air.  'yes, Ormersfield, you be greet a

friend!  you may be very glad, old place!  I wish Mr. Holdsworth would

come up to breakfast!  be it too wet for you this way, Mary?'



this way be into Fernydell, and Mary answer, 'oh, no--no; it be

where I most want to go with you.  we have never be there together

since--'



'no, you never would walk with I after I could go alone!' say Louis,

with a playful tone of reproach, veil deep feeling.



in silence he hand she down the rocky step, plunge deeply among

the hazel and rowan-tree; then pause, he turn aside the luxuriant

leave of a tuft of hartstongue, and show she, cut on a stone, veil

both by the verdure and the form of the rock, the letters--



                  Deo Gratias,

                   L. F. 1847.





'I like that!' be all that Mary's full heart allow she to say.



'yes,' say Louis, 'I feel quite as thankful for the accident as for

the preservation.'



'and that dear mamma be with we,' add Mary.  'between she and you,

it be a blessing to we all.  I see these letter be not new; you must

have cut they out long ago.'



'as soon as I could get here without help,' he answer.  'I think I

should be able to find the very spot where I lay, by remember the

cross which the bare mountain-ash bough make against the sky; but by

that time they be all leaf and flower; and now, do you see, there

they be, with the fruit just form and blush.'



'like other thing,' say Mary, reach after the spray, 'once all

blossom, now--'



'fruit very unripe,' as he say, between a smile and a sigh; 'but there

be some encouragement in the world after all, and every project of mine

have not turn out like my two specimen of copper ore.  you remember

they, Mary and our first encounter?'



'remember it!' say Mary.  'I don't think I forget a day of that

summer.'



'what I bring you here for,' say Louis, 'be to ask you to let I do

what I have long wish--to let I put the letter M here?'



'I think you might have do it without leave,' say Mary.



'so I might at first, but by the time I come here again, Mary, you have

become in my estimation 'a little more than kin,' and less than--no, I

willnot say that, but one could not treat you as comfortably as Clara.  I

lose a cousin one August day, and never find she again!'



'never?'



'never--but the odd thing be, that I cannot believe that what I do

find have be away these seven year.'



'yes, that be very strange,' say Mary; 'I have feel it so.  will do seem

to understand and guess each other's thought as if we have be go

on together all this time.  I believe it be because you give I the

first impulse to think, and teach I the way.'



'and I know who first teach I to think to any purpose,' say Louis,

smile.  'but who be this descend on we?'



it be the spanish gentleman, redden all over at such an encounter,

in mid-career towards she at the Terrace, and mutter something,

breathless and almost surly, about beg pardon.



'look here, Tom,' say Louis, lift the leave to show the letter.

'that be all I ever could feel on that matter, and so should you.

there, no more about it,--you want to be on your way; and tell Mr.

Frost that we shall be at Northwold in the afternoon.'



about half an hour after, Clara be delicately blow the dust out of

the wreath of forget-I-not on the porcelain shepherdess's hat, when a

shriek resound through the house, and, barely save the Arcadian in

her start, she rush downstairs.  James, in his shirt-sleeve, be

already on his way to the kitchen.  there Kitty be find, too much

frighten, to run away, make lunge with the toasting-fork at a

black-bearded figure, who hold in his arm Charlotte Arnold, in a fit

of the almost forget hysteric.  the workhouse girl shriek for the

police; Jane be at Master Oliver's door, prepare for flight or

defence; Isabel stand on the stair, with her baby in her arm, and her

little flock cling to her skirt, when Clara dart back, laugh

too much to speak distinctly, as she try to explain who the ruffian

really be.



'and Louis be come, and Mary!  oh! isabel, he have she at last!  oh!

Jem! Jem! do we ever want dear granny so much!  I always know it would

come right at last!  Jane, Jane, do you hear, Lord Fitzjocelyn be

married!  let I in; I must go and tell Uncle Oliver!'



James look at Isabel, and read in her smile Clara's final acquittal

from all suspicion beneath the dignity of both.  Uncle Oliver would

have damp her joy, have it be in his power.  he give up his affair

as hopeless, as soon as he find that young Fitzjocelyn have only make

they an excuse for get marry, and he be so excessively angry

with she for be happy, that she find she must carry her joyous face

out of his sight.



it be not easy to be a dignified steady governess that morning, and

when the lesson be finish, she could have dance home all the way.

she have scarcely reach the Terrace gate, when the well-know sound of

the wheel be hear, and in another moment she be between the two

dear cousin; Fitzjocelyn's eye dance with gladsomeness, and Mary's

broad tranquil brow and frank kindly smile, free from the shadow of a

single cloud!  Clara's heart leapt up with joy, joy full and unmixed,

the guerdon of the spirit untouche by vanity or selfishness, without

one taint that could have mortify into jealous, disappointed pain.

it be bliss to one of those whom she love well, it be the winning of

a brother and sister, and perhaps Clara's life have never have a happy

moment.



Lord Ormersfield could have thank she for that joyous, innocent

welcome.  he have pay her attention for his son's sake, of which he

have become rather ashamed; and as Louis and Mary hasten on to meet

James and Isabel, he detain she for a moment, to say some special

word of kindness.  Clara, perhaps, have an intuitive perception of his

meaning, and reference to her past heiress state, for she laugh

gaily, and say, 'yes, I never be more glad of anything!  he be so

patient that I be sure he deserve it!  I always trust to such a

time as this, when he use to talk to I for want of dear grandmamma.'



Mary be lead upstairs to be introduce to the five child, while the

gentleman go over the account in Oliver's room.  Enough have be

rescue from the ruin to secure, not wealth, but fair competence; the

mine be dispose of to a company which would pay the value by

instalment, and all the remainder of the business be in train to be

easily wind up by Mr. Ward.  Mr. Dynevor's gratitude be not

overpower: he be short and dry, privately convinced that he could

have manage matter much well himself, and charge all the loss on

Fitzjocelyn's folly in let Robson escape.  but, though James be

hurt at his unthankfulness, and Lord Ormersfield could have be very

angry, the party most concerned do not take it much to heart; he

believe he have do his good, but an experienced eye might detect

blunder, and he know it be hard to trust affair out of one's own

hand.



even the Earl be glad to escape to the sitting-room, though every one

be talk at once, and Mercy the loud; and Louis, as the child

would call he in spite of their mamma, be at once seize on by Kitty

to be introduce to 'our brother.'



'and what be his name, Kitty?'



'Woland!' shout all the young lady in chorus.



'Sir Woland be in the book that mamma do make,' say Kitty.



Louis look at Isabel with laugh eye.



'it be Uncle Oliver's great wish,' she say, 'and we do not wish to

remember the day of Sir Hubert.'



before Lord Ormersfield be quite deafen, Louis recollect that they

must show Mary at the House Beautiful; and they take leave.  the Earl

beg James to come back to dinner with they, and Louis ask if Clara

could not find room in the carriage too.  it be the earnest of what

Ormersfield be to be to her henceforth, and she be all delight, and

earnestness to be allow to walk home with James by starlight.  and

the evening realize all she could wish.  the gentleman have their

conversation in the dining-room, and Mary and Clara sit on the step

together in the warm twilight, and talk of granny; and Clara pour

out all that Mary do not yet know of Louis.



'I hear you have be in hysteric again,' have be Lord Fitzjocelyn's

greeting to Charlotte.  'you be prepare for the consequence.'



Charlotte be prepare.  the mutual pardon have not be very hard to

gain, and Tom have only to combat her declaration that it be downright

presumptuous for she to have more than master have a year, and her

protest that she could not leave her mistress and the dear child in

their poverty.  the tiding that they be relieve from their present

strait answer this scruple, and Charlotte be a pretty picture of

shrink exultation when she conduct she betroth to Mrs. Martha,

who, however, declare that she would not take his hundred and eighty

pound a year--no, nor twice that,--to marry he in that there black

beard.



Mrs. Beckett make he exceedingly welcome, and he spend the chief part

of his time at No. 5, where he be much more at ease than at

Ormersfield.  he confess that, though not give to bashfulness before

any man, there be something in Mr. Frampton's excessive civility that

quite overcome he, and make he always expect to be kick out of

door the next minute for sauciness.



Charlotte's whirlwind of feeling have nearly expend themselves in

that one shock of meeting.  the year of cheerful toil, and the week

of grief and suspense, have be good training for that silly little

heart, and the prospect of her new duty bring on she a sobering

sense of responsibility.  she would always be tender and cling, but

the fragrant woodbine would be train round a sound, sturdy oak, and

her modesty, gentleness, and sincerity, give every promise of her be

an excellent wife.



Tom have little time to spare before undertake his new office, and it

be well that the parting should be speedy, for it be a grievous

one, both to the little bride and to Isabel and the child.  friend

rather than servant, her place could be ill supply by the two maid

who be come in her room, and Isabel could have find it in her

heart to sympathize with Mercy and Salome in their detestation of the

black man who be come to take away their dear Charlotte.



Clara's first outlay, on her restoration to comparative wealth, be on

Charlotte's wedding-dress.  it be a commission give to Mary, when

with Fitzjocelyn, she go to London for one day, to put the final

stroke to the dissolution of the unfortunate firm, and to rejoice Aunt

Melicent with the sight of her happiness.



good old Miss Ponsonby's heart be some degree soft and less narrow

than formerly.  she have a good many prejudice leave, but she do not

venture on such sweeping censure as in old time, and she would have

welcome Lord Ormersfield with real cordiality, for the sake of his

love to her Mary.  indeed, Louis's fascination and Mary's bright face

have almost persuade she into come home with they; but the confirm

Londoner prevail, and she have a tyrant maid-servant, who would not

let she go, even to the festival at Ormersfield in honour of her niece.



the Earl be bent on rejoicing for his son's marriage, and Louis

dexterously manage that the banquet should take place on the day fix

for Tom's wedding, thus cast off all oppressive sense of display, by

regard it as Madison's feast instead of his own. Clara, who seem

to have be set free from governess task solely to be the willing

slave of all the world, work as hard as Mary and Louis at all the

joyous arrangement; nor be the festival itself, like many such

event, less bright than the previous toil.



the wedding take place in Ormersfield Church, on a bright September

morning; James Frost perform the marriage, Lord Fitzjocelyn give the

bride away, and little Kitty be the bridesmaid.  the ring be of

peruvian gold, and the brooch that clasp the bride's lace collar be

of silver from the San Benito mine.  in her white bonnet and

dove-colour silk, she look as simple and ladylike as she be

pretty, and a very graceful contrast to her spanish gentleman

bridegroom.



the Ormersfield bowling-green, which be willnot to be so still and

desert, hem in by the dark ilex belt, beheld such a scene as have

not take place there since its present master be a boy.  there be

long table spread for guest of all rank and degree.  Louis have his

own way with the invitation, and have gather a miscellaneous host.

Sir Miles Oakstead have come to see his old friend make happy, and to

smile as he be introduce to the rose-colour pastor in his glass

case.  Mr. Calcott be there, and Mrs. Calcott, all feud with Mrs.

James Frost long since forget; and Sir Gilbert Brewster shine in his

colonel's uniform,--for Lady Fitzjocelyn have intimate a special desire

that all the member of the yeomanry should appear in costume; and many

a young farmer's wife and sister come all the more proudly, in the fond

belief that her own peculiar hero look in his blue and silver 'as

well as Lord Fitzjocelyn himself.'  and Miss Mercy Faithful be there,

watch over Oliver, to make up for the want of her sister.  and old

Mr. Walby be bow and gossip with many a patient; and James, with

his little brown woman in his hand, be look after the party of

pauper for whom he have obtain a holiday; and Mr. Holdsworth be

keep guard over his village boy, whose respectable parent remain

in two separate throng, male and female; and Clara Frost be here,

there, and everywhere--now set Mrs. Richardson at ease, now

carry little mercy to look at the band, now convey away Salome

when frightened, now find a mother for a village child take with a

sobbing fit of shyness, now conduct a stray schoolboy to his

companion, now run up for a few gay word to her old uncle, to

make sure that he be neither chilly nor tired.  how pleasant it be to

she to mingle with group after group of people, and hear from one and

another how handsome and how happy Lord Fitzjocelyn look, and Lady

Fitzjocelyn quite beautiful; and, then, as they walk from party to

party, set all at ease and leave pleased look wherever they

go, to cross they now and then, and exchange a blithe smile or merry

remark.



no melancholy gap here! think she, as she help her uncle to the

easy chair prepare for he at the dinner-table; no spiritless

curiosity, no force attempt to display what no one feel!



there must need be toast, and such as think themselves assemble

for the sake of the 'marriage in high life,' be take by surprise

when Lord Fitzjocelyn rise, and begin by thank those assemble for

assist in do honour to the event of the day--the marriage of two

person, for each of whom he himself as well as those most dear to he

feel the warm respect and gratitude for essential service and

disinterested attachment, alike in adversity and in prosperity.

unpleasant as he know it be to have such truth speak to one's face,

he could not deny himself the satisfaction of express a portion of

the esteem and reverence he feel for such noble conduct as have be

display by those whose health he have the pleasure to propose--Mr. and

Mrs. Thomas Madison.



'there,' be his aside, as he sit down, 'I only hope I have not make

he surly; poor fellow, I have put he in a predicament, but it could

not be otherwise!'



Clara have tear in her eye, but not like those she have shed at

Cheveleigh; James give Louis a look of heartfelt gratitude, bow the

low to the happy pair, and hold up little Kitty that her imitative

nod and sip might not be lose upon they.



Mrs. Beckett say, 'well, I never!  if ever a girl deserve it,'

choke, and flourish her white handkerchief; Frampton salute like my

Lord and Louis XIV. roll into one; and Warren and Gervas privately

agree that they do not know what be come of the world, since

Marksedge poacher have only to go to foreign part to be coin goold

in the silver mine.  Mrs. Madison's pretty face be all blush,

smile, and tear.  Mr. Madison rise to reply with unexpected alacrity,

and Louis be soon relieve from anxiety, at least, as far as regard

his eloquence, for he think in the majestic spanish idiom, and

translate as he went--



'my Lords,' he begin, 'gentleman and lady and neighbour, my Lord

Fitzjocelyn have do my wife and myself an honour as unlooke-for as

undeserved; and the manner of the favour be such that we shall carry

the grateful remembrance to the end of our life.  he have be so

condescend as to speak of such service as it be in our power to

render; but he have pass over in silence that which give he a claim

to the utmost that I could place at his foot.  he will forgive I for

speak openly, for I cannot refrain from disburthene my mind, and

let you know, even more than you be at present aware of, what your

Senor--what your Lord truly be.  Most of you have know I but too

well.  it be not ten year since I be a rude, untaught boy upon the

heath, such as a large proportion of those present would deem beneath

their notice: Lord Fitzjocelyn do not think so.  his kindness of

manner and encourage word awaken in I new life and energy.  he

give I his time and his teaching, and, what be far more, he give I

his sympathy and his example.  it be these which give vitality to

lesson dimly understand, or which have fall dead on my ear, when

only hear in my irregular attendance at school. but the work in I be

tardy, and at first I requite his kindness with presumption,

insubordination, and carelessness.  then, when I have be dismiss,

and when my wilful neglect have occasion the accident of which the

trace be still only too visible, then, do I not merit to be expose

and cast off for ever?  I know it, and I flee, as if I could leave

behind I my grief and my shame.  little do I dare to guess that he

be deal with I as though I have be his own brother, and

scrupulously conceal my share in the misfortune.  when I return,

sullen and overwhelmed, he alone--yes! and while still suffer

severely--speak a kind word to I, and exert himself to rescue I

from the utter ruin and degradation to which despair would have lead I.

he place I in the situation which conduct I to my present

position; he give I the impulse to improve myself; and, above all, he

infuse into I the principle without which the rest would have be

mere temptation.  if I have be blest beyond my desert--if I have

be prosperous beyond reasonable expectation--if, among numerous

failure, I have withstand some evil--all, under the great and

high Benefactor, be owe to the kindness, and, above all, to the

generous forbearance of Lord Fitzjocelyn.  I wish I could testify my

gratitude in any well manner than by speak of he to his face; but

I be sure you will all drink his health more heartily, if possible, for

know one more trait in addition to your own personal experience of

his character!'



Alas! that all thing hide, and yet to be proclaim on the

house-top, would bear the light as well as Fitzjocelyn's secret!  the

revelation of this unobtrusive act of patience and forbearance excite

a perfect tumult of enthusiasm among person already work up to great

ardour for one so beloved; and shout, and even tear, on every side

strove in vain to express the response to Madison's word.



'too bad, Tom!' be Louis's muttered comment.



'you be pay in your own coin,' retort Mary, raise her glistening

eye, full of archness.



'I perceive it be no surprise to you, Lady Fitzjocelyn!' say Sir Miles

oakstead; 'and, I own, nothing from that quarter' (nod at Louis)

'surprise I greatly.'



'she practise eavesdropping,' say Louis, 'when the poor fellow be

relieve his mind by a confession to the present Mrs. Madison.'



'and I think Mrs. Madison and I deserve credit for having keep the

secret so long,' say Mary.



'it explain,' observe Mr. Holdsworth.  'I do not understand your

power over Madison.'



'it be the making of we both,' say Louis; 'and a very fine speciman

of the grandeur of that rough diamond.  it elucidate what I have

always say, that if you can but find the one vulnerable place, there

be a wonderful fund of nobleness in some of these people.'



'do you take this gentleman as an average speciman?'



'every ploughboy be not an undeveloped Madison; but in every parish

there may be some one with either the _think_ or the rise element

in his composition; and if the right ingredient be not add, the

fermentation will turn sour, as my neglect have very nearly make it do

with he.  he would have be a fine demagogue by this time, if he have

not have a generous temper and Sunday-school foundation.'



'hush!' say Mary, smiling--'you must not moralize.  I believe you be

do it that poor Farmer Norris may not catch your eye.'



Louis give a debonnaire glance of resignation; and the farmer, rise

in the full current of feeling cause by Madison's speech, say, with

thorough downright emotion, that he know it be of no use to try to

enhance what have be already so well express, but he believe there

be scarcely a person present who do not feel, equally with Mr.

Madison, the right to claim Lord Fitzjocelyn as a personal friend,--and

an irrepressible hum of fervent assent prove how truly the farmer

speak.  'Yes,--each have in turn experience so much of his friendly

kindness, and, what be more, of his sympathy, that he could

confidently affirm that there be scarcely one in the neighbourhood who

have not learn the news of his happiness as if some good thing have

happen to himself individually.  they all as one man be delighted

to have he at home again, and to wish he joy of the lady, whom many

of they know already well enough to rejoice in welcome she for her

own sake, as well as for that of Lord Fitzjocelyn.'



again and again do the cheer break forth--hearty, homely, and

sincere; and such be the bright, tearful, love eye, which seek

those of Fitzjocelyn on every side, that his own fill so fast that

all seem dazzle and misty, and he hastily strove to clear they as he

arise; but the swelling of his heart bring the happy dew again, and

would scarcely let he find voice.  'my friend, my dear, good friend,

you be all very kind to I.  it be of no use to tell you how little I

deserve it, but you know how much I wish to do so, and here be one who

have help I, and who will help I.  we thank you with all our heart.

you may well wish my father and I joy, and yourself too.  thank you;

you should not look at I so kindly if you wish I to say more.'



the Earl, who have study popularity as a useful engine, but have never

prize love beyond his own family, be exceedingly touch by the

ardour of enthusiastic affection that his son have obtained,--not by

courting suffrage, not by gift, not by promise, but simply by real

open-hearted love to every one.  Lord Ormersfield himself come in for

demonstration of warm feeling which he would certainly never have

seek nor obtain ten year ago, when he be respect and look up

to as an upright representative of certain opinion; but personally,

either dislike or regard with coldness.



he know what these cheer be worth, and that even Fitzjocelyn might

not long be the popular hero; but he be not the less gratified and

triumphant, and feel that no success of his whole life have be worth

the present.



'after all, Clara,' say Oliver Dynevor, as his nephew and niece be

assist he to the carriage, 'they have manage these thing well

than we do, though they do not have Gunter.'



'gunter cann't bring heart's love down from town in a box,' say Clara,

in a flash of indignation.  'no, dear uncle, there be thing that

cann't be get unless by live for they.'



'nor even by live for they, Clara,' say James; 'you must live for

something else.'



Lord Ormersfield have hear these few last word, and there be deep

thought in his eye as he bid his cousin farewell at the hall door.



Clara be the last to take her place; and, as she turn round with a

merry smile to wish he goodbye, he say, 'you have be make

yourself very useful, Clara, I be afraid you have have no time to enjoy

yourself.'



'that's a contradiction,' say Clara, laugh; 'here's busy little

Kitty, who never be thoroughly happy but when she think she be useful,

and I be child enough to be of the same mind.  I never be unhappy but

when I be set to enjoy myself.  it have be the most beautiful day of

my life.  thank you for it.  goodbye!'



the Earl cross the hall, and find Mary stand alone on the terrace

step, look out at the curl smoke from the cottage chimney, and

on the coppice and hedge-row.



'be you tired, my dear?' he say.



'oh no!  I be only think of dear mamma's persuade Louis to go on

with the crumpled plan of those cottage.  how happy she would be.'



'I be think of she likewise,' say the Earl.  'she speak truly when

she tell I that he might not be what I then wish to make he, but

something far well.'



Mary look up with a satisfied smile of approval, say, 'I be so

glad you think so.'



'yes,' say Lord Ormersfield, 'I have think a good deal since.  I

have be alone here, and I think I see why Louis have do well than

some of his elder.  it seem to I that some of we have not know the

duty that lie by the way-side, so to speak, from the main purpose of

life.  I wish I could talk it over with your mother, my dear, what do

you think she would say?'



Mary think of Louis's vision of the thread.  'I think,' she say,

'that I have hear she say something like it.  the real aim of life be

out of sight, and even good people be too apt to attach themselves to

what be tangible, like friendship or family affection, or usefulness,

or public spirit; but these be like the path of glory which lead but

to the grave, and no far.  it be the single-hearted, faithful aim

towards the one thing needful, to which all other thing may be add

as mere accessory.  it bring down strength and wisdom.  it bring

the life everlaste already to begin in this life, and so make the

path shine more and more unto the perfect day!'









the END.



















end of Project Gutenberg's Dynevor Terrace (Vol. II), by Charlotte M. Yonge







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK DYNEVOR TERRACE; OR, the clue of life — volume 2 ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





